BRITISH COLUMBIA REPORTS.

REGINA v. MEE WAH. BEGBIE, C.J.

Constitutional law-B.N.A. Act, Sec. 92, s.s. 9-Taration-Municipal license fees-Direct or indirect tax-Construction of statute-Words ejusdem generis.

The Municipal Act, 1885, Sec. 10, extended the powers of municipalities so as to include " licensing and regulating wash-houses and laundries," and Sec. 11 enacts that Municipalities may " hereafter levy and collect from every person who keeps or carries on a public washhouse or laundry, such sum as shall be fixed on by by-law, not exceeding $75.00 for every 6 months."

On appeal from a conviction for carrying on a public laundry without a license.

Held, (1) Taxation by means of license fees, and the tax in question, is indirect and not direct taxation.

(2) All indirect taxation, except that authorized by Sec. 92, s.s. 9. B.N.A. Act, providing "in each province the legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to (9) shop, tavern, saloon, auctioneer and other licenses in order to the raising of a revenue for provincial, local or municipal purposes " is ultra vires of the Provincial Legislature.

(3) The words "and other licenses" only included industries ejusdem generis with those specified, and do not include a wash-house.

(4) The most reasonable rule to adopt to ascertain whether a certain matter or thing is within the meaning of a statute as being ejusdem generis with things specified therein "and others," is to look to the object or mischief aimed at by the statute. All similar things that come within that object, though not in the abstract ejusdem generis are so for the purposes of the statute.

(5) If it appears that a tax is not bona fide within the purpose provided for, but is imposed with the real purpose of discriminating against a class, it is not within the justification of the enabling statute, and, on the facts, the tax in question was intended not for the purpose of raising a revenue, but as a restriction on the Chinese.

APPEAL from a conviction for carrying on a public laundry without a license and payment of the license fee under a by-law of the Corporation of the City of Victoria based on Sec. 11 of Municipal Amendment Act, 1885.

The facts and arguments of counsel fully appear from the judgment.

A. N. Richards, Q.C., for the appeal.

J. S. Yates, contra.

BEGBIE, C.J .: This is an appeal from a conviction for carrying on a public laundry without a license and payment of the license fee under a recent by-law. It was not denied by the appellant that the by-law is authorized by the recent Provincial Act, the only question is whether that Provincial Act, viz .: clause 11 of the Municipal Amendment Act, 1885, is constitutional within the meaning of the British North America Act. Section 10 of the Provincial Act extends the powers of the Corporation so as expressly to include "licensing and regulating wash-houses and laundries," and Section 11, referring to the existing expressed powers of Corporations to issue other licenses and collect fees or taxes in respect thereof, expressly adds this, that they may hereafter levy and collect " from every person who keeps or carries on a public wash-house or laundry such sum as shall be fixed by by-law not exceeding $75.00 for every 6 months." This is the clause impugned.

The clause in the B.N.A. Act upon which alone this Section of the Provincial Act is based is Section 92. " In each province the Legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to * * * (sub-section 9) shop, saloon, tavern, auctioneer and other licenses in order to the raising of a revenue for Provincial, local or Municipal purposes. Sub-section 16. "Generally all matters of a merely local or private nature in the Province " does not, I think, apply to taxation.

The only other sub-section which confers on the Provincial Legislature any power to tax is sub-section 2 which deals with direct taxation within the Province in order " to the raising of a revenue for Provincial purposes." But neither can this sub-section have any application here. 1st. It deals only with direct taxes and this taxation by means of license fee is indirect, not direct taxation. Severn's case, 2 S.C. Can. R. pp. 70, 90, 92, 113, 123, 137. 2nd. It deals only with taxation within, i.e. generally, throughout the ProvBEGBIE, C.J. ince, and these laundry license fees are only to be levied COUNTY COURT within Municipalities, and may vary in different parts of 1886. Feb. 3. the Province. 3rd. It only authorizes taxes for Provincial revenue and these license fees are to fall into the MuniciREGINA 0. MEE WAH pal revenue. The consideration of sub-section 2, therefore, merely emphasizes the proposition (according to the Attorney-General of Quebec v. The Queen Assurance Company, 3 L.R. App. Cas. 1090) that all indirect taxation for Municipal purposes except what is authorized by sub-section 9 is illegal.

The first objection taken by Mr. Richards (viz.) that the clause is unconstitutional merely and broadly because it imposes an indirect tax seems to be too general. Such taxation will be valid enough, if the enactment comes fairly within the meaning of sub-section 9, nor can the next objection be fatal (viz.) the objection merely and broadly that it is in restraint of trade. Whether washing be a trade or a mere industry will presently be considered. UnquesJudgment. tionably all taxation on buying and selling, all interference with labour, may and perhaps must to some extent restrain trade, yet some instances of taxation of trades, and some regulations of labour, are undoubtedly within the power of the Provincial Legislature. Besides, this enactment, and . consequent by-law, do not absolutely restrain, i.e. forbid this industry. The laundryman may remove beyond the city limits and quite evade the tax.

Setting aside therefore these broad objections to the tax, as too general, the questions are two, (viz.)

1st. Does this license come within the words "shop, saloon, tavern, auctioneer and other license?" and,

2nd. Is the tax imposed in order to raise a Municipal revenue, or is it imposed for any other purpose ? e.g. for restriction or suppression, total or partial.

The answer to the first question depends on the force of the words "other licenses." Whether that means other licenses on matters of the same kind as the four enumerated, according to the general rule of construction, or whether it means licenses for the doing or permitting any other thing whatever. It is said by a learned text writer, Sir P. Maxwell on Statutes, p. 303, that the rule restraining the generality of the word " other " to matters ejusdem generis only applies where the things actually named are themselves all of the same nature; but that where the things named are of different natures then the phrase " other things or articles" will extend to all objects, though quite different from those named. Citing for this among other cases Regina v. Payne 1 C.C.R. 27. There a statute made it penal to convey to a prisoner, in order to facilitate his escape, " any mask, disguise, letter or other article or thing;" and it was held that a crowbar was within the Act. So in Young v. Grattridge, 4 L.R.Q.B. 166, a Health Act empowered a medical officer to enter and inspect " any slaughter-house, shop, building, market or other place " and it was held that a butcher's yard which contained slaughtered cattle was within the Statute, Regina v. Edmundson, 2 E. & E. 77, is to a similar effect. But these decisions do not for their support apparently require the principle enunciated by Maxwell, nor was any such principle alluded to in any of them. And though his statement deserves great respect being cited approvingly by a very learned Judge in Severn's case, yet it was not followed by the other four Judges, nor does it appear to be founded on any other judicial dictum. And indeed it is submitted that such a construction of the doctrine of ejusdem generis is in some sense self-destructive.

If the two or more things actually named are identical as " air, atmosphere, or other gas;" " dagger, poniard or other weapon," then the word " other " is to be confined to other gases strictly of the same nature, it does not extend the phrase at all and if the two things named are not identical as " oil, vinegar or other fluids," the word " other " would extend to all other fluids whatever. The doctrine of ejusdem generis which has occupied many Courts and many BEGBIE, C.J. judgments and which therefore does really exist, would run COUNTY COURT the risk of being annihilated. A more reasonable rule 1886. Feb. 3. REGINA MEE WAH would seem to be to look at the object or the mischief aimed at by the Statute or other instrument; all matters that come within that are ejusdem generis so far as the Statute is concerned. Thus in Gayne's case, a crow bar and a letter and a mask are no doubt extremely different in texture, weight and appearance. No painter or chemist would call them ejusdem generis; but they are all strictly ejusdem generis so far as that they are instruments calculated to facilitate a prisoner's escape. So in Young's case, a butcher's yard is strictly ejusdem generis with his shop and his slaughter house so far as regards the mischief of preparing unwholesome food. But a watchmaker's or a tailor's shop would not be ejusdem generis with a butcher's shop, though all are called shops; and meat in a tailor's shop would probably not have been liable to be seized under Statute in that instance.

If there were no matters or occupations having any analogy or attribute (except taxability) common to these four named instances in sub-section 9, the inference would be very strong that " other licenses " extended to every possible matter. But as was pointed out by Mr. Justice WILSON in Regina v. Taylor, 36 U.C.Q.B. 183, cited and approved in Severn v. Reginam, there are many analogous matters.

Restaurants and lodging houses bear no distant resemblance to taverns; coffee shops to saloons (though these again are utterly distinct from a teetotaler's point of view) and there are coupled together in the Insolvency Act, Canada, 1875, Sec. 1, brokers and commission agents to auctioneers, etc.

There are two classes of Statutes in which words are always strictly construed in favour of the party charged, even at the suit of the Crown; Statutes which create offences and Statutes which impose taxation.

The present Municipal Amendment Act, 1885, partakes of both natures, and the ordinary rule must I think be observed, viz., the subjects of the "other licenses " mentioned in sub-section 9 must have at least somewhat besides taxability (from which quality no Act or thing is exempt) in common with "shops, taverns, saloons or auctioneers."

Again suppose some other licenses, well known elsewhere, taxes as in England on man-servants, on hair powder, on armourial bearings-would these be authorized by subsection 9? I think not. Indeed if no restriction whatever be placed on the word " other" in that section; if the Provincial Legislature can insist upon imposing licenses upon everything and upon every act of life, and tax each licensee at any moment they please, there would be a very simple way of excluding every Chinaman from the Province, by imposing a universal tax, not limited to any nationality, of one or two thousand dollars per annum for a license to Judgment. wear long hair on the back of the head: or to exclude Russians by a license to wear a beard, or Jews by a license to eat unleavened bread. No Chinaman will shave the back of his head; no true moujik will shave his chin. There might be a tax on a license to register lands above a certain value; and we might have a graduated property tax. The opinion, therefore, of the majority of the Judges in Severn's case, seems more probable. There must I think be some limitation placed on the licensing power by the word " other."

Mr. Yates argued from even that point of view these laundries were taxable, for that the laundry men though they were very certainly not keeping shops, were very analogus to auctioneers. I rather think that the auctioneers would repudiate this alleged similarity of their occupation to that of a Chinese washerman. I cannot perceive it. An auctioneer has very extensive authority and important duties; he prepares advertisements and surveys, disposes property in lots, advises as to prices, and generally is the agent of both parties to the contract of sale. There is nothing of all BEGBIE. C.J. this in a laundry; and I feel strongly inclined to think that COUNTY COURT laundries are not taxable under this sub-section at all, bearing no analogy to either "shops, saloons, taverns or auctioneers."

But without deciding on this ground there is a still more serious obstacle against supporting this clause 11 of the Provincial Act of 1885, as being within Section 92, subseetion 9. The taxation by way of license authorized by that sub-section 9 is to be "in order to the raising a revenue for Provincial, local or Municipal purposes." Now, licences may have for their object the raising of a revenue, or the regulation of a trade or occupation, or they may be imposed for the purpose of repression or suppression. And whatever power the Provincial Legislature may possess for regulation or repression; taxation for these two latter purposes is not authorized by the B.N.A. Act, but only taxation for the purpose of revenue. And it is roundly alleged by the appellant that this tax is imposed, not with the object of raising a revenue for the City, but with the object of harJudgment. assing Chinamen, supposed to be the only persons carrying on this industry.

In considering this objection, we must distinguish between the real objects and the actual results of legislation. It is true the real object is very often, perhaps in most cases, shown by the result. But an Act which has bona fide only one object, may indirectly work out an entirely collateral result. An Act intended purely for a revenue, or regulation may greatly harass some particular individuals or classes of individuals; e.g. the Excise Acts. But the harassing of brewers is not the object of the Excise Acts. So on the other hand an Act intended purely for harassing of some one or more individuals may incidentally bring money into the City treasury. That incidental result will not validate the Statute, if the real object be unlawful. The objection to apply at all, must depend on the object, declared or dissembled, and not merely on the result or one COUNTY COURT of the results of the provisions of the Act.

1886. If the object of the Provincial Statute be as alleged, viz., Feb. 3. REGINA v. MEE WAH to subject Chinamen to exceptional disadvantages it is clearly unconstitutional. That point has been so held in this Court by Mr. Justice GRAY in Tai Lung's case, reported appx. G. to the report of the recent Chinese Conmission, p. 379, and by Mr. Justice CREASE in Wing Chong's case, 1 B.C.R. Pt. II, 150, both these learned Judges fortifying their opinions by numerous decisions and arguments of Judges in the United States' Courts. Those decisions are not binding on us here; and indeed are partly founded on the Constitution of the United States and its relation to the several States, which in many respects differ from the Constitution and the relation between the Dominion and the Provinces. But the Judges in those foreign Courts have had a much longer and more varied experience on these topics than ourselves; their institutions are closely analogous in many Judgment. respects, though, it is true, contrasted in others to our own. And their opinions and reasonings being also founded on international law, and, I take the liberty of saying, on natural equity and common sense, they are entitled to great weight beyond the limits of their own jurisdiction. I shall only mention Lee Sing v. Washburn, 20 Cal. Rep. 354; Baker v. Portland, 5 Law 750; Teburcio Parrott's case, coram SAWYER and HOFFMAN, J.J., 1880, and the Quene ordinance case, coram FIELD and SAWYER, J.J., 1879; the two latter cases published in a separate pamphlet form, in which the opinions of Mr. Justices FIELD, HOFFMAN, SAWYER and DEADY and other Judges whom they cite, all confirm this, that a State, or Provincial law imposing special disabilities or unequal burdens on Chinamen is unconstitutional and void. In British Columbia such a law if it impose a tax labours under the additional infirmity that a licence tax for any other purpose with any other object, than merely raising a revenue, is beyond the power of the Provincial Legislature to impose.

Mr. Yates, for the Corporation, urged that this Statute is COUNTY COURT very different from the Statutes condemned by Mr. Justice 1886. Feb. 3. CREASE in Wing Chong's case and by Mr. GRAY in Tai Lung's case; those. Statutes were by their title and preamble REGINA v. MEE WAH expressly aimed at Chinamen by name; that this distinction also renders inapplicable all the United States' cases cited; that this enactment is quite general extending to all laundries without exception and we must not look beyond the words of the enactment to enquire what its object was; that there is in fact one laundry in Victoria not conducted by Chinamen on which the tax will fall with equal force so that it is impossible to say that Chinamen are hereby exclusively selected for taxation; the circumstance that they are chiefly affected being a mere coincidence; that the bylaw only imposes $100.00 per annum, keeping far within the limit of $150.00 permitted by the Statute; that the tax clearly is calculated to procuring additional Municipal revenue and that no other object is hinted at.

Now it is true that this Statute does not, like those dealt with by Mr. Justice GRAY and Mr. Justice. CREASE by its Judgment. very title bind illegality upon its forehead; nor is there here any preamble like that in Wing Chong's case which Mr. Justice CREASE treats as " without example," but which may well deserve the stern reproof uttered by Mr. Justice FIELD upon a somewhat similar enactment in California. " It is not creditable to the humanity and civilization of our people, much less to their Christianity, that an ordinance of this character was possible." Quene ordinance case, p. 9.

The recent statute has nothing of that sort. But it is very justly insisted upon by every Judge that the object of a statute is after all to be determined by the effect of its operative part. The title and preamble may be very objectionable, but if the operative sections are within the power of the Legislature they shall stand. On the other hand, the preamble may breathe the spirit of the purest and most COUNTY COURT universal philanthropy, and the most submissive legality ;

1886. but that will not save any clauses which are otherwise Feb. 3. unconstitutional. And in determining the quality of any REGINA v. MEE WAH clauses, the same Mr. Justice FIELD remarks : " When we take our seats on the Bench, we are not struck with blindness and forbidden to know as Judges what we see as men ; and when an ordinance, though general in its terms, only operates upon a special race, sect or class, it being universally understood that it is to be enforced only against that race, sect or class, we may justly conclude that it was the intention of the body adopting it that it should only have such operation, and treat it accordingly." Now can anybody in the Province, on or off the Bench, conscientiously say that this ordinance does not come within the principle thus enunciated ? I, for my part, cannot arrive at any other conclusion than that it is specially directed against Chinamen because they are Chinamen and for no other Judgment. reason ; to compel them to remove certain industries from the city or themselves from the Province. But the authorities already cited show that this effect cannot be attained directly, and what cannot be done directly will not be permitted to be done by a side wind. Tiburcio Parrott's Case, pp. 1634; Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall 325. " If we hold otherwise," said the learned Judge, in that case "no kind of oppression can be named against which the framers of (the B.N.A. Act) intended to guard which may not be effected."

The appellants' contention that the clause is merely intended to hamper or expel Chinamen is much strengthened by considering the amount of the tax sanctioned, which is $150.00 per annum, whereas the limit sanctioned by the Legislature in the case of any retail shop, however extensive or lucrative its business, is only $10.00 per annum. In other words, this menial and poorly paid occupation may be taxed fifteen times the annual amount which the statute permits to be imposed on the most extensive grocery or dry goods store. It is impossible for me to believe that the BEGBIE, C.J, sole object or the main object of such an imposition is to aid the revenue of the Corporation.

The test is whether on the whole statute the Legislature can fairly be held to have said : "Let us impose a tax in order to raise a revenue, though perhaps it may fall on Chinamen," or " let us impose this tax in order to fall on Chinamen, though perhaps it will raise no revenue." When we find (1st) no other description of labour taxed at all ; (2nd) this description of labour practically quite abandoned to Chinamen alone ; (3rd) this description of labour taxed at fifteen times the rate permitted to be levied on any retail shop ; (4th) that a preliminary Provincial Act has declared Chinamen incapable of the franchise which they formerly exercised. I cannot doubt but that the tax is directed against Chinamen, as such.

But the enormously disproportioned rate of taxation has another consequence. It shows that revenue was not the sole object of the tax ; probably not the object at all. If the promoters of this clause had been really casting about for Judgment. additional revenue, they must have seen that shops are a great deal more numerous than laundries and generally more remunerative.

It requires very little financial ability to perceive that a a small addition of $5.00 or $10.00 on shops would enrich the city far more than $150.00 per annum on every laundry, even if this last amount could be collected. But here the magnitude of the tax would entirely defeat the professed object and support the view that the concealed object was the true one. The occupation of a washerman is very poorly paid ; probably at a lower rate than any other trade or occupation, since in former years men of all nationalities busied themselves with this, which they have wholly abandoned, presumably for more lucrative employment ; whereas the number of shops, &c., has very much increased. It must have been apparent on the commonest reflection that this, the most poorly paid occupation, cannot endure fifteen times the tax imposed on the most lucrative; that such a 1886. tax would probably extinguish every laundry in Victoria ; Feb. 3. and so that no additional revenue would be produced at all. REGINA v. MEE WAH I cannot imagine that any person reading the clause would be blind to this; and I am compelled to think that restriction and not revenue was the very object of the tax. But it is clear that the Provincial Legistature has under the B.N.A. Act no power to impose or authorize a tax for the purpose of driving any industry out of the city or the Province.

Clanse 11 in the Act of 1883 seems, therefore, quite ultra vires and unconstitutional; and the by-law, which I have taken to be admitted as otherwise accurate, stands upon that clause alone and must fall with it. In fact, if the bylaw only imposes a moderate and reasonable amount, say $5.00 or $10.00 per annum, it would probably be equally a nullity. Even a reasonable and useful by-law cannot stand Judgment. if authorized only by an unconstitutional statute.

The general conclusions arrived at are these: (1.) It seems probable that laundries are not taxable within Subsection 9 of Section 92 B.N.A. Act. (2.) Any clause in a Provincial Statute or Municipal By-Law, which, though general in its terms, operates, or is intended to operate only upon one sect, race or class, is liable to be declared unconstitutional and void. (3.) The object of a statute is to be ascertained not only from its title or preamble, but mainly from its enactments. (4.) That a by-law, even if founded upon a valid statute must be reasonable, i.e., not necessarily equal but proportionate, and not such as to defeat the object of the law. This is all in conformity with the previous decisions of Mr. Justice CREASE in Wing Chong's Case and Mr. Justice GRAY in Tai Lung's Case, which are approved and followed.

In this case I am moreover of opinion (5th) that the Provincial Legislature has no power to impose or authorize any

license tax except for the bona fide object of raising revenue by the produce of the tax ; and that this Clause 11 was not enacted bona fide for that sole purpose or even mainly for 1886. that purpose, and is therefore unconstitutional and void. 

The conviction will, therefore, be set aside with costs. Appeal allowed. 