1. Chinamen in British Columbia appear to follow any description of industry which may appear useful, i.e., in which they can obtain employment or earn their livelihood. I should say by far the larger number of them trust to the pick and shovel: either agricultural, or road-making, or mining. There are many who mine for gold on their own account, working chiefly on the bars of rivers and water-courses, with rockers and flumes. Many are, or were recently, employed at Nanaimo in coal mines, both above and below ground. Many undertake gardening and small farms. Another large class take to domestic service; scarcely any establishment in the province has any other servants. Another large class take to trade; they have the whole business of supplying their fellow countrymen, and some firms compete with the most respectable Europeans in general trade. The menial businesses of washing and of splitting and Chinese washer sawing stovewood are almost entirely engrossed by Chinamen. I do not believe there are many mechanics, properly so-called. I only know of their being employed in two manufactures: shoes and cigars. There are few carpenters. They are employed about every building; but generally as mixers of mortar, hodmen, wheel-barrowmen: not as masons, or brick- layers, or carpenters. Every Chinaman in British Columbia has the air of having worked, and of being ready to work, with his hands, except a few who practice as medical men and the leading commercial men.

2. So far as I have observed, they are invariably ready and anxious to go to any kind of work immediately on their arrival here; and fit for work so far as health is concerned.

3. I am sorry to say we have no system of public poor relief, or of public relief of any kind, except the hospitals and the asylum. Chinamen do not much trouble the hospitals. I never heard of Chinamen becoming a burden on the private charity of the whites. I have an indistinct remembrance of having been once asked to contribute to the cost of removing a disabled Chinaman; I am not sure. Such cases must be extremely rare. Nothing is more common than to be called on to relieve whites by private charity.

4. To answer this question fully is to destroy the force and meaning of the answer. Industry, economy, sobriety, and law-abidingness are exactly the four prominent qualities of Chinamen as asserted both by their advocates and their adversaries. Lazy, drunken, extravagant, and turbulent: this is, by the voices of their friends and foes, exactly what a Chinaman is not. This is, on the whole, I think, the real cause of their unpopularity. If Chinamen would only be less industrious and economical, if they would but occasionally get drunk, they would no longer be the formidable competitors with the white man which they prove to be in the labor market; there would be no longer a cry for their suppression. They would not be liked; the two races are too dissimilar, and each has too high an opinion of his own deserts. But they would not be hated; in fact they would not be here to excite hatred. The reason why they are here is, because their peculiar qualities command a ready market. If they had not these qualities, nobody would want them. If nobody wanted them, they would not come. But these qualities meet with no competition here; and the Chinaman sees no person to take his place were he to abdicate it. I have heard an individual Chinaman stigmatized as "lazy ;" but the fact was he conceived himself insulted, and was sulking. Their never-ending, ceaseless toil is like nothing but an ant-hill. I cannot recall to memory that I ever saw or heard of a Chinaman being drunk. Extravagant they certainly are not, though they live well when they can afford it, both inside and out: chicken and silk jacket. And they certainly do sometimes run in debt, both in trade debts and in gambling, which is their chief vice. There is scarcely an epithet so removed from the notion of a Chinaman as "turbulent," though of course they may be provoked to resist violence. They are somewhat given to petty thefts, and so not thefts. invariably law-abiding. But these thefts are rarely, if ever, accompanied by violence or threats against the person. Indeed it may be conjectured that they generally steal through want. For, looking to their universal. employment as domestics, their large brotherhoods, necessarily impenetrably secret to the whites, and the unguarded condition of our houses, the pilfering by Chinamen servants is really quite inconsiderable. I believe that two of the white servants I have had have pilfered more from me  than any twenty Chinamen in Victoria ever stole from their employers..

5. Yes; better than white men do with each other. They are notoriously excellent tenants, paying rent punctually.

6. So far as I see, I do not quite understand how they could, except, perhaps, in commerce. They have some firms, wealthy and busy for British Columbia firms; but I do not think these compete for European consignments.

7. Those who stayed in Victoria and the lower country, chiefly engaged in domestic service, washing, etc. These certainly supplied a want then felt; but I do not think they were ever much encouraged or welcomed, except that they found employment readily on terms satisfactory to themselves. The greater part took their picks and shovels to the gold mines. I cannot say they were much wanted there; nor was their coming there, so far as I recollect, much welcomed or encouraged. On the contrary, they were from the first thoroughly unpopular in the mines; the mining population being very Californian in its prejudices, its likings and dislikings. Nor do I think that the feeling has much changed, although they now go quite freely to the Cariboo, and have for many years; also to the Cassiar. They did not go to those districts at first, for obvious reasons; I think the police could scarcely have guaranteed them.

8 and 9. I do not think that the feeling of the whites against Chinamen has much changed; but I do not recollect anything that can be called "agitation " against them until Confederation. The agitation is of the same description as that felt by the hand-loom weavers against the power-looms; by the flail-wielders against the threshing-machines in England fifty years ago; by the Solway fishermen against the stake-nets in the last century; by the lower orders in many parts of Europe against the Jews; and by the coal-miners in Pennsylvania against the machineborers at the present day. That seems to be the impulsive force which brings into action the ever-present dislike between the Indo-Caucasian and this branch of Mongolians. This dislike, which otherwise might lie dormant or inert, is certainly mutual; it is manifested in China, we are- told, more extensively and stringently than here, and without any impulse  there from direct competition for bread. Europeans at Canton or Shanghai are not safe beyond their allotted cantonments, any more than a Chinaman would have been on Williams Creek twenty years ago. The Chinaman is in every respect the reverse of an European, except that he is a man. His religion, his notions of honor and rank, his mode of thought, his dress, his amusements, his sense of beauty, his vices, are not to our taste at all, or such as we can take to or even understand; and his language, spoken or written, appears to us at once incomprehensible and ridiculous. Yet they as evidently despise all our attainments and ways; and, what is most annoying, they come here and beat us on our own ground in supplying our own wants. They are inferior, too, in weight and size of muscle, and yet they work more steadily and with better success on the average than white men.

A distinguished political writer of the present day speaking of the Judenhetze in Europe, thus expresses himself :

" What is it that in every age, and in so many and in so different countries, not only ancient, but to-day, in Russia, Germany, Roumania, causes this hatred of the Jews? An intuitive antipathy, jealousy mingled with contempt. The Roumanian finds himself in company with a large number of people of alien race, of feelings, traditions and religion quite different from his-people who do not own the same ties of fatherland as he, who do not intermarry with him or his kindred, and whose domestic institutions are unknown and perhaps unintelligible to him. So in Germany. There can be no doubt that the Judenhetze derived its strength, not from the historical arguments of Professor Von Treitschke nor from the Christian arguments of court preacher Stoeker, but from the widespread sense that the Jews were out-bidding the Christian Germans in the market."

Evidently such competition must be put down. In the central portions of Europe, this is attempted in a barbarous way-by brute force, by fire and bludgeons. But countries of a higher political organization are provided with more tranquil and equally effective methods; and, with a few regrettable exceptions, these latter methods only, in the main, have been pursued here. Accordingly, before the close of the First Parliament after Confederation, Chinamen were deprived of the right of franchise, which they had previously enjoyed. This was on the ostensible ground that all Chinamen were actuated merely by direct money considerations. It is highly probable that they are as accessible to bribery as the ordinary white voter, but I am not aware that any enquiry was made or evidence aken on the point. On the other hand, some years later, it was sworn in evidence before the Kootenay Commission, 1878, that the majority of voters (at that time all whites) in a certain district had received money for their votes at the last previous election. This statement passed without comment or contradiction. No disfranchisement was suggested on this ground. Everything else follows logically. The constituencies are of exclusively white race, with no property qualification. Members of the legislature in a constitutional state are in duty bound to take the views of their constituencies as expressed at the polls; and to support such measures as please their constituents. This is their ratio existendi, unless they do so, they would at the next election cease to be returned. A constitutional ministry is bound to see their line of duty in the path indicated by the votes of the majority of the house-they are, in fact, a sort of managing committee to carry into effect the wishes of that majority. They hold office on that condition. And what the local house cannot enact of itself, they, and their committee of management, are bound to obtain or attempt by all the means in their power to obtain from the superior legislature.

The same distinguished writer whom I have already quoted on the Judenhetze, observes, in speaking of the rival programmes in the existing presidential campaign in the United States: "The Irish vote or the republican working man cannot be wooed successfully without attacks on the bloated capitalist, on English tyranny or treachery, or on the unfortunate immigrants from China.” Mutato nomine. The names of races and states may be changed, but human nature remains the same with Celt, and Slave, and Semite, and Mongolian.

10. I do not think their habits or mode of life are really injurious to the public peace or the public health; not more than the habits of the whites. There are several matters alleged against Chinamen: One is the extraordinarily small space into which a cluster of them will retire for rest. Four or five, or even ten or twelve, will be on a raised platform, almost like a litter of puppies. It is said this is dangerous in a sanitary view. I believe it is forbidden in London to lodge people for hire, without a certain number of cubic feet in the room to each inmate. But I have seen in a good-sized house, where there was plenty of cubic space, and where each person might have had a separate bunk, five or six Chinamen, not lodgers but owners, sleeping in a heap as above described. It does not appear to affect their health unfavorably.

It is common to attribute to Chinamen generally, that they are infested with disgusting diseases -- e. g., leprosy. I believe this is pure imagination; an absolutely unfounded report. When an orator talks of Chinese lepers, it is exactly the same unmeaning abuse as when a Canton periodical holds out to popular indignation the foreign "red devils." There is no leprosy or diabolism in the case; though of course a Chinaman, like any other man, may be a leper. The orator merely wishes to impress his audience with the belief that 'he strongly objects to Chinamen. But if the orator be in a position to keep a servant, he certainly keeps at his home one or more of these "lepers," who cook all his food, wash all his clothes, his glasses and his plate, waits at his table, kneads all the pastry he eats, and makes all the beds he and his family sleep in. A Chinaman was once pointed out to me who was alleged to be a leper. No doubt he had a very disgusting skin disease; I did not examine him at all; on the contrary, I kept as far off as possible. It may have been leprosy, which is not always identical in its manifestations. He seemed to be quite as shocking to his own countrymen as to the whites. He was being shipped away when pointed out to me. That was the only case of skin disease I remember to have noticed or heard of among Chinamen. Such diseases, generally the result of vice, or hereditary taint, are by no means unknown here among the whites and half- breeds. I have seen many. These certainly were not contracted from Chinamen.

It is alleged against them that they are inordinately given to the use of opium I do not know whether eaten, or smoked, or both-and that their example is dangerous to the whites. I altogether disbelieve in any widespread mischief here from opium. Most nations and tribes in the world, even savages, are given to the use of sedatives or narcotics of some description. The Chinese, and I believe other Asiatic nations, use opium extensively. In whole provinces, each as large as England, the poppy is the chief agricultural crop, all for home use, none being exported. The enormous consumption which this implies does not appear to prevent Chinamen from being the most prolific race, the most indefatigable laborers, and the keenest traders in the world. If any Chinamen here abuse the drug by over-indulgence, they must hide themselves, or at all events they have entirely escaped my observation. If their example persuades any white people to similar over-indulgence, of which I am equally ignorant, these must be a very degraded class-weaker and more degraded than the Chinaman whose expulsion is demanded. Opium, as generally used here, is probably as harmless as tobacco, which is also extensively used in British Columbia by Chinamen. They have manufactories here for their own consumption; and they probably consume far more tobacco than opium. Neither opium nor tobacco extend in their evil effects beyond the individual. They are not nearly as dangerous to the public peace as whiskey. I am very far from thinking, and I wish not to be understood as at all insinuating, that whiskey causes crime, or induces a criminal intention; on the contrary, it seems reasonable to hold that intoxication often renders a criminal intention impossible, and still more often lessens the criminality of the offence, which, committed deliberately by a sober man, would evince a deeper hue of guilt. But there can be no doubt but that drunkenness is the most frequent occasion of crime; that far more offences are committed by men under the influence of liquor than when in their sober senses. And to the injured party the offence is just as great, and very nearly as great to the community; whether committed under whiskey or not. All the evils arising from opium in British Columbia in a year do not, probably, equal the damage, trouble and expense occasioned to individuals and to the state by whiskey in a single month, or perhaps in some single night, As already observed, I do not remember ever to have seen a drunken Chinaman; and the argument against Chinamen founded on opium appears to be analogous to the comparison of the mote and the beam.

It is alleged that not only the aggregation of Chinamen in their dwellings is a source of danger to the public health, but that their habits are filthy. This last allegation I take to be mere unfounded abuse, if directed against them as a race. There are of course dirty Chinamen. Many of them are very poor, and are, perhaps, as dirty as poor white people; but that they are as a race dirty, or believed to be dirty, seems quite incompatible with the fact that they are as a race unanimously invested with a virtual monopoly of the two occupations requiring the highest degree of personal cleanliness, viz., cooking and washing. Any family in British Columbia will, at once, without any enquiry as to his cleanliness, admit the first Chinaman who offers as a cook-where a cook is wanted; and really it may be said that no washing is given out to people of any other nation. As to danger to the public peace, they are, I think, less inclined to crimes of personal violence, than men of any other races.They are occasionally dishonest, but the fact that they have (as being the races. vast majority of domestic servants) more opportunities for pilfering, than all the other inhabitants of British Columbia put together, and that very few serious thefts are laid to their charge, seems conclusive on this point.

11. Whether the presence of Chinamen is any longer desirable in British Colombia, is to a certain extent a matter of opinion. But as to the past, the undoubted facts are: 1st. That Chinamen are very large till within a year, mainly, employed in all the laborious parts of our coal mines ; 2nd. They constitute three-fourths of the working hands about every salmon cannery; 3rd. They are a very large majority of the laborers employed in gold mining; 4th. They are the model market gardeners of the province, and produce the greater part of the vegetables grown here; 5th. They have been found to be absolutely indispensable in the construction of the railway; 6th. They are largely, sometimes exclusively, employed in nearly every manufactory or undertaking of any description, not being under the authority of a board or council elected exclusively by white voters.

12. This is again a matter of opinion. I do not see how people would get on here at all without Chinamen. They do, and do well, what white get on without women cannot do, and do what white men will not do. If Chinamen were expelled, employers of labor would probably have to leave the province; and when they were gone, where would the employed be?

13. I do not know. Probably most people who now employ servants would go away. All canneries and many other successful establishments would be closed. The railway works (construction and repairs) would necessarily be suspended. People with any realized property who remained (if any remained) would be very uncomfortable, I should apprehend. People without any means would probably have very few employers to support them.

14. I should say, not a certain number, but an uncertain number, are necessary to be retained; to be imported, if all those now here should depart. How many depends upon circumstances. The supply would probably regulate itself as does the supply of horses. Would it be advisable. to banish all horses from the province? To do so, would open out many opportunities for white men's labor. Would it be desirable to secure a supply of half a million of horses ? They would probably eat us all up: i.e., devour all our means of subsistence. There are supposed to be in California more than 120,000 Chinamen. It is probable that in that state, as in British Columbia, a good deal more than half the manual labor is performed by Chinamen. It is, perhaps, worth while to refer to the condition of labor in the Californian vineyards and hop-grounds as mentioned quite incidentally in the San Francisco Weekly Bulletin, 10th September, 1884, and consider what would be the effect on the development of our infant agricultural country if half its laborers, and of its powers of supply of laborers, were suddenly cut off. The result might of course be ultimately beneficial ; but it is difficult to resist the opposite conclusion.

" Within a radius of two miles there are at this time no less than 500 Chinamen engaged in gathering the hop crop. So far as I can judge from a casual examination, the yield will be about equal to that of last year, and the quality of the hops excellent. It is quite an interesting sight to watch the process of picking and drying. For a field of twenty-five or thirty acres about 100 Chinamen are employed. They pick, two together, into large boxes, which hold 140 to 150 pounds of green hop. The two poles which are set in each hill of hops are pulled down, and the mass of hops laid across the box, which is covered with an apron to prevent the leaves falling in. The Chinamen work by contract, and they rush from morning till night, seeming never to tire. As soon as a box is filled a loud yell informs the foreman, who brings a sack, into which the box is emptied, and the Chinamen are given a check. Two Chinamen can pick from two to three boxes in a day, and as they receive $1.50 per box it will be seen that they are earning white men's wages. Last year they only received $1.25, but help at this time is scarce and the China bosses had only to demand the raise and get it. It is understood that they will demand $1:25 a day for grape picking, and no doubt the demand will have to be complied with."

15. This involves a calculation of an almost impossible nature; quite impossible for me. What are the best interests of the colony? Who knows what white people may come here? In what number, or what seeking, or for what qualified ?

16. It is of course impossible to prophesy; but as far as I can judge of human nature, the first cargo of capitalists, under the supposed conditions, would not stop here long, and would frighten all other cargoes away. A capitalist, with any common sense, wants either to enjoy his money or to employ it; which are indeed the only two plans by which his capital can be of advantage to his fellow man. But if the supply of service were limited, as mentioned in the question, it seems very clear that he could neither employ nor enjoy his money, and he would take himself elsewhere. I do not say that the sum of human felicity here, or anywhere, would be diminished by the absence of capitalists; but there is surely no method so likely to deter them as to limit in any way the supply of the only importable article which they really require. The greatest natural advantages in fisheries, mines, ports, are quite sterile unless operated on by labor, and capital is necessary to support that labor. But capital alone would be quite useless without labor; and would be little likely either to visit or remain in a province, where it would merely consume away.

It does not seem generally understood by those who work with their hands, that unless the result of their handiwork, is marketably worth more than the money they receive for wages, their employment must soon stop. The lowest limit of wages is the money which will buy the necessaries of life for the laborer. The highest limit is the whole of the augmented value which his labor confers on the material operated on. If the laborer accepts less than the first, he will die of want. If the employer give the whole of the second, he will leave himself nothing to live upon, and will speedily die of want in his turn, unless he more speedily retire from his undertaking and place his capital in the funds: when he will at last get interest. Between these two impassable limits the rate of wages oscillates according to supply and demand. Now the only paying industries here are the canneries and shoe factories, in both of which the labor is almost exclusively Chinese. Owing to a very great superiority in the mineral, the coal mines have paid largely, notwithstanding the rates of white miners wages, unequalled elsewhere; but the coal mines have hitherto largely employed Chinamen also. Few other established industries have accumulated any gains.

After all that I have said about Chinamen, I can lay no more claim to consistency than anybody else in British Columbia. They are generally abused, and yet everybody employs them. I have always asserted their good qualities; but I have never in twenty-six years had a Chinaman in my house, an expensive whim that nobody else has indulged in. Still, I have had my opportunities of seeing and hearing, for in all that time, I do not think I ever knew a family that did not employ at least one Chinaman.

17 and 18. See answer to 15.

19. The combination which it is intended to suggest would be, I suppose, that the legislature should forbid such arrivals of Chinamen, and that the white population should " boycott " those remaining here; or else that the legislature should decree their expulsion. But this would not suffice. It would in addition be necessary that the employers should raise the rate of wages, sufficiently to induce an equivalent influx of new white labor to replace the expelled or boycotted Mongolians: the present rates, $2 per day, for unskilled labor being barely sufficient to attract or retain the whites already here. It may be doubted whether employers would or could, voluntarily and unaided, adhere to this part of the combination. The ordinary class of unskilled labor offered in the market here(and the same is the experience of other colonies) is very unsatisfactory, and the existing tariff has reached perhaps the utmost limit at which employers can continue to exist. Therefore, lest the "combined effort " should fail, it would be necessary that a minimum rate, say of $5 per day (which would probably suffice to attract additional white labor) should be fixed by law. But it would take 6,000 new whites to do the work of the expelled Mongolians. In order to supply these with places, it would be further necessary to enact that each person in the employing class must employ from five to fifty of the new comers, at the improved rates. Only one more ordinance would then be required in order to bring the " combined effort " into full effect, viz., to make provision for supplying employers out of the public purse with funds to meet this drain on their resources. It is unnecessary to speculate upon the development thus accruing to the material resources of the colony.

20. I never heard of any person, white, black, or yellow, who had labor- British Columbia. to sell that was worth buying, who could not in this province find a ready employer. But in order to get remunerative employment here or anywhere else in the world, a man must be able to do remunerative work. And the misery is, that many men who profess to be willing to turn their hands to anything know nothing to which they can usefully turn their hands. Handicrafts require teaching and practice, and they have never learned. The normal rates of wages are five shillings for Chinamen, and in Victoria eight shillings for white men. Below that rate no white man, even if penniless and hungry, is willing to engage upon any work or service whatever. Skilled artisans, carpenters, masons, blacksmiths ask from twelve to twenty shillings a day. Board is advertised at many hotels at sixteen shillings a week : so I suppose eight shillings a day is remunerative to the workman within the meaning of this question. A miner was recently pointed out to me at Nanaimo in the employ of the Vancouver Coal Company, an ordinary hewer and sinker, who has been in the employ of the company and its predecessors at the current wages of the day for the last thirty years. He has brought up and educated respectably a large family of sons and daughters, all of whom are most respectably married or self-supporting now. He has had no pecuniary aid whatever but his wages, and I was told that he has been able to lay by as a provision for old age (but he is still at regular work) the sum of between $30,000 and $40,000. This, I imagine, may be taken to be a reasonable provision for old age, within the meaning of the question. He has never drank, nor gambled, nor dressed his wife and daughters in silks and satins; he has enjoyed good health and freedom from accident. It is undeniable that every miner in Nanaimo, in proportion to his length of service, has had an equal opportunity of providing against old age, and such workmen would always be welcomed by employers. Of course, when a worker is unable to give to his employer the value of his wages, perhaps not the value of his board, no employer can stand that long, as already pointed out in answer 16.

21. I think it has had a very material effect indeed. For instance, since the beginning of the present year, three thousand souls, as I was informed, have been located in one limited district alone, on the south side of Fraser River, the opposite side to the railway. That is including wives and children.

22. I cannot believe that it has; on the contrary, as the presence of Chinamen has enabled some small capital to be accumulated, they must have augmented the wages fund in the province: i. e., the loose capital seeking to increase itself by the employment of reproductive labor.

I do not believe that any single European in the province would employ a Chinaman about any undertaking if he could procure an European, irrespective of wages, unless, of course, the European demanded wages which precluded all profit on the undertaking. Chinamen are employed not so much because their normal money tariff is lower than the whites and yet not much lower; many Chinamen get $30, and some even $35 and $40, per month-as because they are, as a rule, more sober, steady, docile and industrious. Their language is the great stumbling-block. With very few exceptions, indeed, I never met a Chinaman whom I could understand, beyond the commonest wants, or by whom I could feel any certainty that I was understood, even for an ordinary message. Yet I have often feared that I should be compelled to fall into the universal practice and take Chinese servants into my house-which I have never yet done. I have, indeed, been compelled to employ them indirectly; for there are things that white people simply refuse to do at all, e.g., wash and hew stove-wood.

I append a published list of railway labor rates for whites. The corporation of Victoria employ a good many about the streets; their tariff rates is, I believe, $2 per day; and the work seems by no means to call for over exertion. This table may also be applied to answer 20:

23. I have never personally observed any effect by the Chinese upon the morals of the white people. The latter have occasionally been induced by race- prejudice to indulge in acts of violence ; but it would be too much to say from thence that the Chinaman had corrupted his cowardly assailants. One Chinaman, last year, pleaded guilty to an indictment for indecent assault on two girls of ten or eleven and twelve or thirteen years. I am not sure that he quite understood the effect of his plea, nor am I at all sure that a jury would have convicted a white man on the evidence in the depositions; but I felt sure he had acted abominably, whether tempter or tempted, though I don't think it was he who had corrupted the childrens' morals in the least. However that is the only case I remember in which it could be alleged that a Chinaman had had any evil effect upon the morals of the whites, a matter upon which they can have but very little influence, either for good or evil. Whites who have evil communications with Chinese must themselves be lamentably depraved beforehand; and so, I should be disposed to say, immoral Chinese are not only not more injurious, but they are quite innocuous to the morals of the whites, in comparison with white people of similar or allied habits.

24 and 25. I have seen unmistakable prostitutes in the Chinese quarter of Victoria. But I never noticed any indecent words or gestures, nor anything comparable to what used to be seen any night in Holborn or the Strand; and, from all I have seen and heard, I should say that they do not flaunt their vice and depravity at all. Many will say that they are none the better for that, that Naples, and Paris, and Brussels are worse than London, though the latter displays her vice infinitely more openly. Drunken whites, I am sorry to say, are often to be seen in Victoria, by night or by day; but I do not remember ever to have seen a Chinaman under the influence of liquor. Debauched whites sometimes frequent, I believe, Chinese brothels, as they do Indian brothels. I don't think serious breaches of the peace are proportionately more frequent in Chinese brothels than in those kept by white women. Indian brothels breed the most disturbances; and they are close to the Chinese quarter. This is my notion, but any constable's opinion is far more valuable.

26. As stated in my answer to enquiry ten, I have never seen or heard of more than one case alleged to be leprosy; whether that case was leprosy or not, I cannot say. Of course I have no knowledge of that disease having been communicated to any white person in British Columbia, and I never saw or heard anything which would induce me to believe for an instant that there is the slightest foundation for any such insinuation. It is mere unmeaning abuse.

27. I have omitted to state that Chinamen here are generally divided into two tribes, or clans-there may be more, but I have often had my attention drawn to these two-viz .: "Canton" and "Hong Kong." Between these clans there is often much jealousy, and sometimes ill blood. Their dialects are in many respects dissimilar, not only in pronunciation, but to such an extent as to have different names for common things; and they very often do not well understand each other, perhaps not better than a Northumberland farm-laborer would understand one from Essex or Dorsetshire. When a breach of the peace occurs among Chinamen, the culprits are generally Canton versus Hong Kong; and when these come into court, either in criminal or civil cases, it is common to allow each side to have an interpreter; as well to watch that the evidence is truly interpreted as also to explain it to their respective clients.

Owing partly to this, and partly also to their unintelligibility to whites, and vice versa, it is usual when twenty or thirty hands are engaged, e. g., at a cannery, not to make the contract with each workman separately, but with some one Chinaman who has learned some English, leaving him to sub-contract with the men; and he being the sole medium of communication between them and the owner of the cannery, this arrangement, though unavoidable, necessarily leaves the men a good deal at the mercy of this foreman. Sometimes this takes place on a much larger scale, and a Chinese merchant here will contract for a whole cargo of Chinamen, fresh from China, whom he engages to provide with employment, and then drafts them out to different employers here, for roads, canneries, etc. All wages are paid to him, and he retains a portion from each workman as his fee. These arrangements, I believe, give rise to the assertion that the whole cargo imported are the slaves of the importer.

Another circumstance has probably induced a similar conclusion. Their laws and customs of marriage and divorce, as in all non-Christian nations, are widely different from ours. They are much more simple and arbitrary. A wife is usually purchased in a very direct way, without any of the circumlocution which too often veils similar transactions among whites. Divorces are effected by mere expressions of the will. A miner who feels no shame in purchasing the possession of a female for a single night for $20, is scandalized when a Chinaman pays $500 for the possession of a female for six months, or until they disagree. No disgust is felt by Europeans when parents make it a sine qua non on consenting to their daughters' marriage that the husband shall settle ten or twenty thousand dollars upon her; but it is infamous if a Chinaman purchases the consent of parents or guardians for one thousand dollars. It is evidence that the female is a mere slave; and that opinion is conclusively established when the husband, after the fashion of his people, hands her over to a second husband for a similar amount. The woman is a slave sold into prostitution, but the Chinese themselves look upon it in a different light. There was a case not long ago in court, before myself, on habeas corpus: A Chinese girl was contracted to marry a man who had offered the guardians five hundred dollars. Another suitor came forward, to whom, at first, it seemed to me, she had no manner of objection, till it turned out that he proposed to take her from her guardians by virtue of the British law of liberty and free choice and without making them any compensation whatever. From that moment she seemed to have taken the strongest distaste to the man who placed no value upon her, and insisted upon going to him who esteemed her worth, at all events, five hundred dollars more than nothing. I apprehend much of what is said about Chinese slavery and prostitution proceeds from imperfect consideration of the difference between Christian and non-Christian marriage; but I only guess this, I know scarcely anything about it.

Another ground on which I have heard it asserted that slavery is general among Chinamen here, is rather, I suspect, a proof of their freedom, or would be so accepted among whites. It is that they demand wages, not such as they would take if left to their own choice, but such as are dictated by certain leaders, who subsist on a percentage of those wages.

I have no doubt but that they have some sort of trades-unions, whose officers and head-centres are supported by subscriptions from the wages received; themselves deciding both on each man's wages and on his subscription. I have no doubt but that compulsion is put on all Chinamen, so that it is very difficult for them to obtain work, if they remain outside this organization. But Messrs. Broadhead, Odger and Arch would indignantly deny that their supporters were slaves.

It is yet further urged against the Chinese, as showing their unfitness to dwell in the land, that they show no respect to our laws, nor to our appointed courts, but refer their differences to private tribunals of their own, whose behests are carried out, irrespective of their conformity with our laws and are never disputed in our courts. As to this I know nothing ; but it seems so probable that it may be assumed to be true. The Chinese, like most other nations with any pretence to civilization, have some methods for referring private disputes to arbitrators chosen by the parties themselves. Such methods are known and practised among all white people; and very extraordinary some of the results are occasionally found to be. That the awards of Chinese arbitrators are always accepted without demur (if the fact be as alleged) would surely be a strong evidence of the equity of the award, and the good sense of the parties in difference; for it is utterly untrue that Chinamen ignore our courts, or treat them with any want of respect. It is as well established as anything touching the feelings and dispositions of these people can be, that they place perfect. confidence in the administration of justice by our officials; and they testify their submission to and acquiescence in the judgments of our courts by every means apparently in their power.

I am very sorry that I can state nothing positive on these last points. I have hitherto had no motive to enquire; and I should view the results of any enquiries with much distrust. Any questions as to their labor associations, their clans, their marriage laws, their immigration contracts, would, I fear, be in general met with suspicion and answered with reluctance. There are very few who could understand the questions; fewer still, probably, who could answer usefully; and to appreciate an answer properly requires a preliminary knowledge in the questioner, which is, exactly what is wanting. Add to this a possible affectation of stupidity, a possible affectation of intelligence, perhaps a reluctance to answer precisely, and a willingness that the enquirer should be balked-apart from the possibility of wilful deceit-all this shows how difficult and uncertain such an enquiry would be here. There is a great conflict of opinion as to. the nature and results of trades-unions at home, after every enquiry possible; how much more difficult would it be to arrive at facts here, where they must necessarily be shrouded behind the impenetrable and irresponsible screen of a Chinese interpreter?


"There have occurred since I wrote some very notable exceptions to this behavior:

Terrorism by a secret association.

At the recent Victoria assizes, in a case of Chinese abduction, where Chinamen witnesses and interpreters were necessary, it was established to the satisfaction of the presiding Judge (Mr. Justice Crease), that these were being terrorized by the threats of certain Chinamen, alleged to belong to a secret association. Three persons alleged to have used such threats were summoned before Mr. Justice Crease, who took immediate cognizance of the charge, (the investigation then pending being paralyzed, so long as the terror continued), and after hearing witnesses, and what the parties, who all appeared on the summons, had to say in their excuse, he fined them $500, $500, and $1,000 respectively, and in addition sentenced them to six months' imprisonment; treating their conduct as a very high contempt of court.

Suppposed attempt to pervert the course of justice.

Another attempt, or suspected attempt to pervert the course of justice is just reported from Lytton. The body of a deceased Chinaman had been found under circumstances which seemed to point to a murder, and two Indians gave evidence before the coroner which implicated two Chinamen in the crime. But at the assizes, these Indians refused to repeat their statements, alleging that their former testimony was false, that they repented of it, and that they had been bribed by some other Chinamen (who appeared as prosecutors) to tender it. This is not a clear case; though Mr. Justice Walkem, (who presided at the assizes), appears to be under the impression that what the Indians said before him was true in substance.

"What do you mean by the 'danger she was running in testifying?' - As she was giving her testimony, and she was asked to point out the man that she saw do the act, out of a number of Chinamen that were there, she pointed her finger at the man and said: 'Him.' As soon as she said this he jumped right to his feet, and said something to her in Chinese. She started back with a great deal of terror, and went into the arms of some bystander, or bystander I should say. This was at the inquest. The accused jumped right out of his chair and started across the room, and I asked the interpreter what he said in his Chinese. The interpreter said he had said: 'You had better shut up.' Of course this is all an opinion of mine, for the girl was very much frightened, and on enquiry I got hold of this idea that she was threatened; and the remark was made by the Chinese police officer - I mean the officer that was on the beat in Chinatown - that if the girl had been older, and understood, we could not have gotten anything out of her, on account of the danger she ran in testifying against this man.

"Could you be more specific as to the danger she ran? - I should consider that she ran the danger of assassination.

"By whom? - By this man's friends or acquaintances; and, as I say, all these matters are simply matters of opinion that I could not bring you specific proofs about."

"It is only just to the alleged suborners to recollect that the neighborhood of Lytton has been the scene of terrible outrages against Chinamen, in all of which the perpetrators have escaped scot free. One case in particular, which in its wholesale unconcealed atrocity equalled anything which I have read of agrarian outrage in Ireland, the alleged ringleaders, though fully identified by four of the surviving victims, were acquitted by the jury upon evidence of an alibi which the prosecutors might well deem perjured-so that in the present case the Chinamen, entirely misapprehending the principles of our criminal law, may have imagined that subornation of perjury was a weapon permitted by our courts, and that to acquit or condemn we only required the production of sworn evidence, without troubling ourselves to enquire whether it were true or not.  

Robbery with violence.  


Constitutional law-B.N.A. Act, Sec. 92, s.s. 9-Taration-Municipal license fees-Direct or indirect tax-Construction of statute-Words ejusdem generis.

The Municipal Act, 1885, Sec. 10, extended the powers of municipalities so as to include " licensing and regulating wash-houses and laundries," and Sec. 11 enacts that Municipalities may " hereafter levy and collect from every person who keeps or carries on a public washhouse or laundry, such sum as shall be fixed on by by-law, not exceeding $75.00 for every 6 months."

On appeal from a conviction for carrying on a public laundry without a license.

Held, (1) Taxation by means of license fees, and the tax in question, is indirect and not direct taxation.

(2) All indirect taxation, except that authorized by Sec. 92, s.s. 9. B.N.A. Act, providing "in each province the legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to (9) shop, tavern, saloon, auctioneer and other licenses in order to the raising of a revenue for provincial, local or municipal purposes " is ultra vires of the Provincial Legislature.

(3) The words "and other licenses" only included industries ejusdem generis with those specified, and do not include a wash-house.

(4) The most reasonable rule to adopt to ascertain whether a certain matter or thing is within the meaning of a statute as being ejusdem generis with things specified therein "and others," is to look to the object or mischief aimed at by the statute. All similar things that come within that object, though not in the abstract ejusdem generis are so for the purposes of the statute.

(5) If it appears that a tax is not bona fide within the purpose provided for, but is imposed with the real purpose of discriminating against a class, it is not within the justification of the enabling statute, and, on the facts, the tax in question was intended not for the purpose of raising a revenue, but as a restriction on the Chinese.

APPEAL from a conviction for carrying on a public laundry without a license and payment of the license fee under a by-law of the Corporation of the City of Victoria based on Sec. 11 of Municipal Amendment Act, 1885.

The facts and arguments of counsel fully appear from the judgment.

A. N. Richards, Q.C., for the appeal.

J. S. Yates, contra.

BEGBIE, C.J .: This is an appeal from a conviction for carrying on a public laundry without a license and payment of the license fee under a recent by-law. It was not denied by the appellant that the by-law is authorized by the recent Provincial Act, the only question is whether that Provincial Act, viz .: clause 11 of the Municipal Amendment Act, 1885, is constitutional within the meaning of the British North America Act. Section 10 of the Provincial Act extends the powers of the Corporation so as expressly to include "licensing and regulating wash-houses and laundries," and Section 11, referring to the existing expressed powers of Corporations to issue other licenses and collect fees or taxes in respect thereof, expressly adds this, that they may hereafter levy and collect " from every person who keeps or carries on a public wash-house or laundry such sum as shall be fixed by by-law not exceeding $75.00 for every 6 months." This is the clause impugned.

The clause in the B.N.A. Act upon which alone this Section of the Provincial Act is based is Section 92. " In each province the Legislature may exclusively make laws in relation to * * * (sub-section 9) shop, saloon, tavern, auctioneer and other licenses in order to the raising of a revenue for Provincial, local or Municipal purposes. Sub-section 16. "Generally all matters of a merely local or private nature in the Province " does not, I think, apply to taxation.

The only other sub-section which confers on the Provincial Legislature any power to tax is sub-section 2 which deals with direct taxation within the Province in order " to the raising of a revenue for Provincial purposes." But neither can this sub-section have any application here. 1st. It deals only with direct taxes and this taxation by means of license fee is indirect, not direct taxation. Severn's case, 2 S.C. Can. R. pp. 70, 90, 92, 113, 123, 137. 2nd. It deals only with taxation within, i.e. generally, throughout the ProvBEGBIE, C.J. ince, and these laundry license fees are only to be levied COUNTY COURT within Municipalities, and may vary in different parts of 1886. Feb. 3. the Province. 3rd. It only authorizes taxes for Provincial revenue and these license fees are to fall into the MuniciREGINA 0. MEE WAH pal revenue. The consideration of sub-section 2, therefore, merely emphasizes the proposition (according to the Attorney-General of Quebec v. The Queen Assurance Company, 3 L.R. App. Cas. 1090) that all indirect taxation for Municipal purposes except what is authorized by sub-section 9 is illegal.

The first objection taken by Mr. Richards (viz.) that the clause is unconstitutional merely and broadly because it imposes an indirect tax seems to be too general. Such taxation will be valid enough, if the enactment comes fairly within the meaning of sub-section 9, nor can the next objection be fatal (viz.) the objection merely and broadly that it is in restraint of trade. Whether washing be a trade or a mere industry will presently be considered. UnquesJudgment. tionably all taxation on buying and selling, all interference with labour, may and perhaps must to some extent restrain trade, yet some instances of taxation of trades, and some regulations of labour, are undoubtedly within the power of the Provincial Legislature. Besides, this enactment, and . consequent by-law, do not absolutely restrain, i.e. forbid this industry. The laundryman may remove beyond the city limits and quite evade the tax.

Setting aside therefore these broad objections to the tax, as too general, the questions are two, (viz.)

1st. Does this license come within the words "shop, saloon, tavern, auctioneer and other license?" and,

2nd. Is the tax imposed in order to raise a Municipal revenue, or is it imposed for any other purpose ? e.g. for restriction or suppression, total or partial.

The answer to the first question depends on the force of the words "other licenses." Whether that means other licenses on matters of the same kind as the four enumerated, according to the general rule of construction, or whether it means licenses for the doing or permitting any other thing whatever. It is said by a learned text writer, Sir P. Maxwell on Statutes, p. 303, that the rule restraining the generality of the word " other " to matters ejusdem generis only applies where the things actually named are themselves all of the same nature; but that where the things named are of different natures then the phrase " other things or articles" will extend to all objects, though quite different from those named. Citing for this among other cases Regina v. Payne 1 C.C.R. 27. There a statute made it penal to convey to a prisoner, in order to facilitate his escape, " any mask, disguise, letter or other article or thing;" and it was held that a crowbar was within the Act. So in Young v. Grattridge, 4 L.R.Q.B. 166, a Health Act empowered a medical officer to enter and inspect " any slaughter-house, shop, building, market or other place " and it was held that a butcher's yard which contained slaughtered cattle was within the Statute, Regina v. Edmundson, 2 E. & E. 77, is to a similar effect. But these decisions do not for their support apparently require the principle enunciated by Maxwell, nor was any such principle alluded to in any of them. And though his statement deserves great respect being cited approvingly by a very learned Judge in Severn's case, yet it was not followed by the other four Judges, nor does it appear to be founded on any other judicial dictum. And indeed it is submitted that such a construction of the doctrine of ejusdem generis is in some sense self-destructive.

If the two or more things actually named are identical as " air, atmosphere, or other gas;" " dagger, poniard or other weapon," then the word " other " is to be confined to other gases strictly of the same nature, it does not extend the phrase at all and if the two things named are not identical as " oil, vinegar or other fluids," the word " other " would extend to all other fluids whatever. The doctrine of ejusdem generis which has occupied many Courts and many BEGBIE, C.J. judgments and which therefore does really exist, would run COUNTY COURT the risk of being annihilated. A more reasonable rule 1886. Feb. 3. REGINA MEE WAH would seem to be to look at the object or the mischief aimed at by the Statute or other instrument; all matters that come within that are ejusdem generis so far as the Statute is concerned. Thus in Gayne's case, a crow bar and a letter and a mask are no doubt extremely different in texture, weight and appearance. No painter or chemist would call them ejusdem generis; but they are all strictly ejusdem generis so far as that they are instruments calculated to facilitate a prisoner's escape. So in Young's case, a butcher's yard is strictly ejusdem generis with his shop and his slaughter house so far as regards the mischief of preparing unwholesome food. But a watchmaker's or a tailor's shop would not be ejusdem generis with a butcher's shop, though all are called shops; and meat in a tailor's shop would probably not have been liable to be seized under Statute in that instance.

If there were no matters or occupations having any analogy or attribute (except taxability) common to these four named instances in sub-section 9, the inference would be very strong that " other licenses " extended to every possible matter. But as was pointed out by Mr. Justice WILSON in Regina v. Taylor, 36 U.C.Q.B. 183, cited and approved in Severn v. Reginam, there are many analogous matters.

Restaurants and lodging houses bear no distant resemblance to taverns; coffee shops to saloons (though these again are utterly distinct from a teetotaler's point of view) and there are coupled together in the Insolvency Act, Canada, 1875, Sec. 1, brokers and commission agents to auctioneers, etc.

There are two classes of Statutes in which words are always strictly construed in favour of the party charged, even at the suit of the Crown; Statutes which create offences and Statutes which impose taxation.

The present Municipal Amendment Act, 1885, partakes of both natures, and the ordinary rule must I think be observed, viz., the subjects of the "other licenses " mentioned in sub-section 9 must have at least somewhat besides taxability (from which quality no Act or thing is exempt) in common with "shops, taverns, saloons or auctioneers."

Again suppose some other licenses, well known elsewhere, taxes as in England on man-servants, on hair powder, on armourial bearings-would these be authorized by subsection 9? I think not. Indeed if no restriction whatever be placed on the word " other" in that section; if the Provincial Legislature can insist upon imposing licenses upon everything and upon every act of life, and tax each licensee at any moment they please, there would be a very simple way of excluding every Chinaman from the Province, by imposing a universal tax, not limited to any nationality, of one or two thousand dollars per annum for a license to Judgment. wear long hair on the back of the head: or to exclude Russians by a license to wear a beard, or Jews by a license to eat unleavened bread. No Chinaman will shave the back of his head; no true moujik will shave his chin. There might be a tax on a license to register lands above a certain value; and we might have a graduated property tax. The opinion, therefore, of the majority of the Judges in Severn's case, seems more probable. There must I think be some limitation placed on the licensing power by the word " other."

Mr. Yates argued from even that point of view these laundries were taxable, for that the laundry men though they were very certainly not keeping shops, were very analogus to auctioneers. I rather think that the auctioneers would repudiate this alleged similarity of their occupation to that of a Chinese washerman. I cannot perceive it. An auctioneer has very extensive authority and important duties; he prepares advertisements and surveys, disposes property in lots, advises as to prices, and generally is the agent of both parties to the contract of sale. There is nothing of all BEGBIE. C.J. this in a laundry; and I feel strongly inclined to think that COUNTY COURT laundries are not taxable under this sub-section at all, bearing no analogy to either "shops, saloons, taverns or auctioneers."

But without deciding on this ground there is a still more serious obstacle against supporting this clause 11 of the Provincial Act of 1885, as being within Section 92, subseetion 9. The taxation by way of license authorized by that sub-section 9 is to be "in order to the raising a revenue for Provincial, local or Municipal purposes." Now, licences may have for their object the raising of a revenue, or the regulation of a trade or occupation, or they may be imposed for the purpose of repression or suppression. And whatever power the Provincial Legislature may possess for regulation or repression; taxation for these two latter purposes is not authorized by the B.N.A. Act, but only taxation for the purpose of revenue. And it is roundly alleged by the appellant that this tax is imposed, not with the object of raising a revenue for the City, but with the object of harJudgment. assing Chinamen, supposed to be the only persons carrying on this industry.

In considering this objection, we must distinguish between the real objects and the actual results of legislation. It is true the real object is very often, perhaps in most cases, shown by the result. But an Act which has bona fide only one object, may indirectly work out an entirely collateral result. An Act intended purely for a revenue, or regulation may greatly harass some particular individuals or classes of individuals; e.g. the Excise Acts. But the harassing of brewers is not the object of the Excise Acts. So on the other hand an Act intended purely for harassing of some one or more individuals may incidentally bring money into the City treasury. That incidental result will not validate the Statute, if the real object be unlawful. The objection to apply at all, must depend on the object, declared or dissembled, and not merely on the result or one COUNTY COURT of the results of the provisions of the Act.

1886. If the object of the Provincial Statute be as alleged, viz., Feb. 3. REGINA v. MEE WAH to subject Chinamen to exceptional disadvantages it is clearly unconstitutional. That point has been so held in this Court by Mr. Justice GRAY in Tai Lung's case, reported appx. G. to the report of the recent Chinese Conmission, p. 379, and by Mr. Justice CREASE in Wing Chong's case, 1 B.C.R. Pt. II, 150, both these learned Judges fortifying their opinions by numerous decisions and arguments of Judges in the United States' Courts. Those decisions are not binding on us here; and indeed are partly founded on the Constitution of the United States and its relation to the several States, which in many respects differ from the Constitution and the relation between the Dominion and the Provinces. But the Judges in those foreign Courts have had a much longer and more varied experience on these topics than ourselves; their institutions are closely analogous in many Judgment. respects, though, it is true, contrasted in others to our own. And their opinions and reasonings being also founded on international law, and, I take the liberty of saying, on natural equity and common sense, they are entitled to great weight beyond the limits of their own jurisdiction. I shall only mention Lee Sing v. Washburn, 20 Cal. Rep. 354; Baker v. Portland, 5 Law 750; Teburcio Parrott's case, coram SAWYER and HOFFMAN, J.J., 1880, and the Quene ordinance case, coram FIELD and SAWYER, J.J., 1879; the two latter cases published in a separate pamphlet form, in which the opinions of Mr. Justices FIELD, HOFFMAN, SAWYER and DEADY and other Judges whom they cite, all confirm this, that a State, or Provincial law imposing special disabilities or unequal burdens on Chinamen is unconstitutional and void. In British Columbia such a law if it impose a tax labours under the additional infirmity that a licence tax for any other purpose with any other object, than merely raising a revenue, is beyond the power of the Provincial Legislature to impose.

Mr. Yates, for the Corporation, urged that this Statute is COUNTY COURT very different from the Statutes condemned by Mr. Justice 1886. Feb. 3. CREASE in Wing Chong's case and by Mr. GRAY in Tai Lung's case; those. Statutes were by their title and preamble REGINA v. MEE WAH expressly aimed at Chinamen by name; that this distinction also renders inapplicable all the United States' cases cited; that this enactment is quite general extending to all laundries without exception and we must not look beyond the words of the enactment to enquire what its object was; that there is in fact one laundry in Victoria not conducted by Chinamen on which the tax will fall with equal force so that it is impossible to say that Chinamen are hereby exclusively selected for taxation; the circumstance that they are chiefly affected being a mere coincidence; that the bylaw only imposes $100.00 per annum, keeping far within the limit of $150.00 permitted by the Statute; that the tax clearly is calculated to procuring additional Municipal revenue and that no other object is hinted at.

Now it is true that this Statute does not, like those dealt with by Mr. Justice GRAY and Mr. Justice. CREASE by its Judgment. very title bind illegality upon its forehead; nor is there here any preamble like that in Wing Chong's case which Mr. Justice CREASE treats as " without example," but which may well deserve the stern reproof uttered by Mr. Justice FIELD upon a somewhat similar enactment in California. " It is not creditable to the humanity and civilization of our people, much less to their Christianity, that an ordinance of this character was possible." Quene ordinance case, p. 9.

The recent statute has nothing of that sort. But it is very justly insisted upon by every Judge that the object of a statute is after all to be determined by the effect of its operative part. The title and preamble may be very objectionable, but if the operative sections are within the power of the Legislature they shall stand. On the other hand, the preamble may breathe the spirit of the purest and most COUNTY COURT universal philanthropy, and the most submissive legality ;

1886. but that will not save any clauses which are otherwise Feb. 3. unconstitutional. And in determining the quality of any REGINA v. MEE WAH clauses, the same Mr. Justice FIELD remarks : " When we take our seats on the Bench, we are not struck with blindness and forbidden to know as Judges what we see as men ; and when an ordinance, though general in its terms, only operates upon a special race, sect or class, it being universally understood that it is to be enforced only against that race, sect or class, we may justly conclude that it was the intention of the body adopting it that it should only have such operation, and treat it accordingly." Now can anybody in the Province, on or off the Bench, conscientiously say that this ordinance does not come within the principle thus enunciated ? I, for my part, cannot arrive at any other conclusion than that it is specially directed against Chinamen because they are Chinamen and for no other Judgment. reason ; to compel them to remove certain industries from the city or themselves from the Province. But the authorities already cited show that this effect cannot be attained directly, and what cannot be done directly will not be permitted to be done by a side wind. Tiburcio Parrott's Case, pp. 1634; Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall 325. " If we hold otherwise," said the learned Judge, in that case "no kind of oppression can be named against which the framers of (the B.N.A. Act) intended to guard which may not be effected."

The appellants' contention that the clause is merely intended to hamper or expel Chinamen is much strengthened by considering the amount of the tax sanctioned, which is $150.00 per annum, whereas the limit sanctioned by the Legislature in the case of any retail shop, however extensive or lucrative its business, is only $10.00 per annum. In other words, this menial and poorly paid occupation may be taxed fifteen times the annual amount which the statute permits to be imposed on the most extensive grocery or dry goods store. It is impossible for me to believe that the BEGBIE, C.J, sole object or the main object of such an imposition is to aid the revenue of the Corporation.

The test is whether on the whole statute the Legislature can fairly be held to have said : "Let us impose a tax in order to raise a revenue, though perhaps it may fall on Chinamen," or " let us impose this tax in order to fall on Chinamen, though perhaps it will raise no revenue." When we find (1st) no other description of labour taxed at all ; (2nd) this description of labour practically quite abandoned to Chinamen alone ; (3rd) this description of labour taxed at fifteen times the rate permitted to be levied on any retail shop ; (4th) that a preliminary Provincial Act has declared Chinamen incapable of the franchise which they formerly exercised. I cannot doubt but that the tax is directed against Chinamen, as such.

But the enormously disproportioned rate of taxation has another consequence. It shows that revenue was not the sole object of the tax ; probably not the object at all. If the promoters of this clause had been really casting about for Judgment. additional revenue, they must have seen that shops are a great deal more numerous than laundries and generally more remunerative.

It requires very little financial ability to perceive that a a small addition of $5.00 or $10.00 on shops would enrich the city far more than $150.00 per annum on every laundry, even if this last amount could be collected. But here the magnitude of the tax would entirely defeat the professed object and support the view that the concealed object was the true one. The occupation of a washerman is very poorly paid ; probably at a lower rate than any other trade or occupation, since in former years men of all nationalities busied themselves with this, which they have wholly abandoned, presumably for more lucrative employment ; whereas the number of shops, &c., has very much increased. It must have been apparent on the commonest reflection that this, the most poorly paid occupation, cannot endure fifteen times the tax imposed on the most lucrative; that such a 1886. tax would probably extinguish every laundry in Victoria ; Feb. 3. and so that no additional revenue would be produced at all. REGINA v. MEE WAH I cannot imagine that any person reading the clause would be blind to this; and I am compelled to think that restriction and not revenue was the very object of the tax. But it is clear that the Provincial Legistature has under the B.N.A. Act no power to impose or authorize a tax for the purpose of driving any industry out of the city or the Province.

Clanse 11 in the Act of 1883 seems, therefore, quite ultra vires and unconstitutional; and the by-law, which I have taken to be admitted as otherwise accurate, stands upon that clause alone and must fall with it. In fact, if the bylaw only imposes a moderate and reasonable amount, say $5.00 or $10.00 per annum, it would probably be equally a nullity. Even a reasonable and useful by-law cannot stand Judgment. if authorized only by an unconstitutional statute.

The general conclusions arrived at are these: (1.) It seems probable that laundries are not taxable within Subsection 9 of Section 92 B.N.A. Act. (2.) Any clause in a Provincial Statute or Municipal By-Law, which, though general in its terms, operates, or is intended to operate only upon one sect, race or class, is liable to be declared unconstitutional and void. (3.) The object of a statute is to be ascertained not only from its title or preamble, but mainly from its enactments. (4.) That a by-law, even if founded upon a valid statute must be reasonable, i.e., not necessarily equal but proportionate, and not such as to defeat the object of the law. This is all in conformity with the previous decisions of Mr. Justice CREASE in Wing Chong's Case and Mr. Justice GRAY in Tai Lung's Case, which are approved and followed.

In this case I am moreover of opinion (5th) that the Provincial Legislature has no power to impose or authorize any

license tax except for the bona fide object of raising revenue by the produce of the tax ; and that this Clause 11 was not enacted bona fide for that sole purpose or even mainly for 1886. that purpose, and is therefore unconstitutional and void. 

The conviction will, therefore, be set aside with costs. Appeal allowed. 

This is an application for a mandamus to the Corporation of the City of Victoria, ordering them to issue a renewal of a pawnbroker's license to the prosecutors. The reason alleged by the Corporation for their refusal is that they have passed a resolution stating that in their opinion the prosecutors are not fit persons to be the recipients of such a license. It is alleged by the prosecution, and not denied, that the Council have in fact ordered the Collector to issue no pawnbroking license to any Chinaman. And the proposition was broadly advanced before me that the Provincial Legislature have the right to eliminate nationalities or individuals from the capacity to receive these trade licenses : and that they have, in conformity with Regina v. Hodge, delegated to the Council authority to exercise that right. The first of these contentions has already been before this Court, and has, I think, been entirely denied by several Judges now on the bench. In the first place by Mr. Justice Gray, in Tai Sing v. Macguire (1 B.C.R. pt. i. 101, 1878): by Mr. Justice Crease in Wing Fong's case (1 B.C.R. pt. ii. 150, 1885); and by myself in Mee Wall's case (not reported). These decisions have never been appealed, and I do not feel at liberty to disregard them. I must, therefore, assume that no such authority exists in the Provincial Legislature, and therefore it is impossible that they could have dele- gated it, or conferred it on the Council. Evidently, if such a power existed, then, since no man may in any municipality pursue any avocation without such license, the Local Legislature might exclude large classes of men from gaining a livelihood, or indeed existing in the Province-a very wide interference with "trade and commerce," which is totally removed from their control by the B. N. A. Act.

It may be useful, however, to examine briefly the grounds on which the Council have been advised that they have a discretion in the matter. This was, in the argument before me, entirely based on the permissive form adopted in the Statute ("Municipal Act, 1887," c. 16, s. 104). " The municipality shall have power to issue licenses " for the trades and professions enumerated, including pawnbrokers (sub-s. 10), "and to levy and collect by means of such licenses the amounts" therein specified. And stress was laid on the word " license," as inti- mating a permission ; without which antecedent license or permission the proposing trader could not lawfully commence business (ss. 112, 113). But these words do not imply any discretion, i. e., authority to grant or refuse. Prima facie, every person living under the protec- tion of British law has a right at once to exercise his industry and ability in any trade or calling he may select. The only instances in which some antecedent certificate of fitness or qualification is required are, I think, liquor dealers, medical men, and barristers and solicitors. These also have to take out annual licenses under the Municipality Act. But special tribunals are appointed to judge antecedently of their fitness. And, I think, it is quite unheard of that the Council should arbitrarily assume to refuse a license to any of these classes, or to volunteer any statement of their opinion of the fitness or unfitness of a doctor or solicitor. If the Council is to have an absolute dis- cretion to refuse a license to any person applying, on the ground of what they choose to allege as unfitness, then half a dozen tradesmen may secure themselves an entire monopoly of their respective trades throughout the municipality, by simply voting that in their opinion each proposing competitor is an unfit person.

But if the least attention be bestowed on the Statute, it will be seen that the Legislature has given no discretion to the Council. The Statute does not even say they may "grant " licenses ; but only that they may issue them. The industrial classes are told, " You may not carry on your trade in the municipality without a license; if you ask where to get a license, we have authorized the municipality to issue it on payment to them of the annual amount fixed by by-law." Now, enabling words are always compulsory when they are words to effectuate a legal right (Julius v. Bp. Oxford, 5 App. Ca., L. R. 214). And it is of course unnecessary to prove-I should, but for this class of cases, have supposed that it was unnecessary even to state-the undoubted right, which is the boast of English law, that every person living under it has a right to his industry, and to the fruits of it. And when we look to the form of the license in the schedule to the Act we see that it is not issued by the corporation at all (which could only be done under seal), and that it amounts to nothing more than the collector's receipt for the license money, and a certificate that so far as that is concerned (and that is all that concerns the corporation) the holder may exercise the calling therein specified.

It was alleged that the occupation of a pawnbroker affords peculiar facilities for the concealment of stolen goods and the escape of crim- inals, and that it is particularly essential that care should be exercised

in the selection of persons to carry it on. It is, however, for the Legislature to speak on such a subject, and it has spoken. There are special laws relating to pawnbrokers. The business, it is true, is not, to most persons, attractive. A pawnbroker deals always with the needy, occasionally with the criminal classes: he must generally be hard, and always usurious. But he has always been considered a necessary evil. There has never, so far as I know, been placed any limit on their number, any more than on the number of bakers or butchers. It has been deemed sufficient to make special laws in respect to them and their books, and the supervision of the police. But so, also, are there many special laws for the inspection of butchers' shops under the Health Acts, and of grocers, and bakers, and milk dealers, and in fact of all traders, under the Weights and Measures Acts and the Adulteration Acts; and a reference to the London Police Courts will show that many classes of tradesmen far surpass the pawnbrokers in the number and importance of the charges against them before the stipendiary magistrates. In fact, the pawnbroker assists the detection of criminals perhaps as often as he defeats it, and is a most useful ally of the police.

It is not uninteresting to note the uniformity with which the same events result from the same principles, although in very different parts of the world. Victoria does not possess a monopoly of race jealousy. In the French colony of Cayenne, the Town Council recently handi- capped the superior capacities of the Chinaman by imposing on merchants of that empire an extra tax of $300 per annum, deeming it also expedient to handicap English and German traders by a surtax of $200 on them. But on an appeal to the Courts at Paris, all these impositions were declared null on the very same principles as those on which the Courts here insisted when they decided the cases above referred to, viz., as being infringements at once of personal liberty, and of the equality of all men before the law, and also negation of international rights.

The prosecutors are entitled to their writ, and as the law on the subject has been quite clearly laid down ten years ago by Mr. Justice Gray, and again and again by other Judges, the defendants must pay all costs.

Mandamus allowed.