
1. The classes of persons who come here as emigrants from China are almost entirely the lowest class of laborers or coolies, with a sprinkling of merchants ; no mechanics or artisans, no skilled laborers.

2. They usually arrive in good bodily health and fit for work. There was a cry of leprosy, but it was disproved by our own doctors.

3. There is no system of poor relief in British Columbia. There are no poor. There are benevolent societies, confined to particular nationalities (in name only), which extend aid in cases of sickness or the like. On these the Chinese do not come. They have their own benevolent society recently established. Previously their sick were sent to our hospitals and so became chargeable on our charity in hospital cases, or were cared for by their own people. They are never that I am aware of a burden on private charity.

4. They are kat' exocheen industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding, and in all those respects quite a pattern to the whites, and have always been so. It is because of these very qualities that white labor is jealous of them. As a class, indeed as individuals, they are neither lazy, drunken, extravagant nor turbulent. I have never seen in all these years (twenty-five) a drunken Chinaman. Occasionally on the railway works where they have suffered, or fancied they suffered great frauds at the hands of their own middlemen, sometimes even at the hands of the white foremen, they have resisted, and violent assaults have been the consequence. For these they have been severely punished whenever they have come before the courts. As in all large bodies of workmen, especially that lower substratum of labor from which some of our railway labor has been recruited, especially in British Columbia, bad individuals have been refractory and created trouble, but not more than, probably not so much as, on other similar works in the neighboring states. Among themselves (the Chinese) crimes of violence, even occasional murders have occurred, which from the secrecy of their mode of life, or our ignorance of it, have defied the investigations of the police. But this failure very likely arises from the almost universal ignorance in British Columbia of the Chinese language. There is not a single Anglo-Chinese dictionary or grammar to be obtained either here or at San Francisco. It has generally been supposed from the secrecy with which some murders were committed (they are confined to two or three Chinese murders altogether in many years), which have occurred in British Columbia undiscovered, that the victims were executed by the decrees of some secret Chinese tribunal, like the Vehm-Gericht, having its centre in San Francisco, but I have not been able to discover a single fact which tended to corroborate that suspicion.

5. They are punctual to the extreme in money matters. They think Their life made up, as much of a shilling as we do of a dollar. When they have by laborious degrees obtained money, they are as ready as any white man to enter into mining or other speculations all through the country. They are punctuality itself in meeting their pecuniary obligations and carrying out their contracts. In all these years that I have been continuously in British Columbia (namely, twenty-five), I do not know of a single case of a Chinaman who has been in the bankruptcy or insolvent court. This is not because they have not credit, for Chinese merchants, punctual to the day and hour in monetary engagements, can obtain what credit they please, (money is of no nationality), but this fact is accounted for because they are practically scrupulously honest. In all this they set an admirable example to white men. What British Columbia wants is small coin, and small economies, as a system to inculcate practically the habit of frugality.

6. In coming to British Columbia, and while here, the Chinese have no idea of interfering with the property of the white population in any way beyond the ordinary competition which they offer in the labor market. They are not mechanics or artisans.

7. When the Chinese first came to this place they supplied a felt want, one which had become almost intolerable in the way of labor and domestic service. The white settlers who first came to the country were very few in number, and had their own work to attend to. Those who followed in the search after gold all wanted to be "bosses," or either their own masters or superintendents of other men's work. When the railway office was first opened for white laborers in British Columbia, out of every hundred some eighty wanted to be "bosses." The prices they charge for white labor here have, ever since I have been here-that is, since my arrival in 1858-been simply prohibitive to the ordinary employer of labor : $2, $2.50, and even at times $3 a day for ordinary labor ; for mechanics, $3, $4, $5, or more per day. All the first settlers who came here arrived without money. It required a large sum, as well as a long time, an adventurous spirit, and lots of pluck even to get here with a family, 15,000 miles from home in those days. The country was a wilderness. All food and manufactured articles, such as clothing, tools, machinery, etc., were exceedingly dear. We had houses, churches, gaols, court-houses, and all other buildings to erect ; roads through forest and swamp to clear out and build ; trunk roads through the country in all directions to make ; in short, everything required for civilization the first settlers had to do ab initio, out of their own labor and savings, or money they could borrow from San Francisco. All this was effected without assistance from the imperial treasury, which, in every other British colony, had contributed largely to launch its infant offspring into political life. British Columbia had to be, and was, self-supporting from its birth. There is no other British colony with such a record. The proximity of British Columbia to its flourishing neighbor, the United States, while in some respects a great advantage-for this country at first possessed no capital or staple until gold broke out, and was dependent not only for capital, but for breadstuffs, cattle, clothing, groceries, indeed supplies of all kinds, on San Francisco and Oregon-was in other respects a great disadvantage. All the white labor which failed in obtaining in British Columbia the high pay expected, had only to cross the border, an imaginary line close at hand, to obtain it. The Indians could not be depended upon at first on account of their numbers, which in those days were threatening, nor afterwards on account of their restless, nomadic propensities, which prevented them settling down to any permanent, industrious avocations. The English settlers had all the household and servile occupations to discharge themselves : chop and cut wood, get water, clean the dishes, pots and pans ; cook, wash, bake, sew, and rear families, and discharge all the other onerous and multifarious duties of the ménage. In this strait a few, myself among the number, chartered several ships with female servants from England round the Horn. We paid £30 ($150) a head for their passage, on engagements of gradual repayment out of wages at colonial rates after they arrived-a payment which, with a few honorable exceptions, I need hardly say, was rarely ever made. That proving a complete failure, Kanakas from the Sandwich Islands were tried and also failed ; so, by the mere process of exhaustion no resource was left but Chinese labor, which was accordingly employed, at first, very reluctantly. Every one had a great and not unnatural objection to try them ; but necessity has no law, it was Chinese labor or none at all. At first they were imported from San Francisco in isolated instances ; but gradually as the white woman saw her neighbor get some relief from the killing domestic slavery of colonial life she also adopted them, and, by the sheer necessity of the case, their employment as domestic servants became general, and at last universal. Such white labor as could be had was eminently unsatisfactory, not only on account of scarceness and price, but because, especially female servants, they would not submit to consider themselves in the household arrangements as in any respect subordinate to their employers. Immigrants who went to the mines, as in Cariboo, could get $10 a day, and some of them got claims yielding in many instances, and for a considerable period 600 ounces of gold to every wash-up. Success of this kind made ordinary labor to those engaged in that avocation ever after distasteful. It is not too much to say that without Chinese servants the privations in family life, extreme and of wearying monotony, would have become intolerable, and a general exodus of families would have been the result. Indeed as it was numerous industrious settlers with wives and families were driven out of the country on that account. The high prices the Chinese obtained from the first, as wages, up to the present day, are a very fair test of the necessity for their employment. From $15 per month, the lowest to an inferior man, up to $35 a month for the best (with board and lodging be it remembered) have been the continuous rates. Young boys, even $8 or $10. It is a singular fact that Chinese servants are the only class of people that are positively paid to learn their duty. This arises from their peculiar facility in adapting themselves to any work they have to learn, and their success in acquiring that knowledge. But if white servants, who would do the same work, and as well, at anything like the same wages, and who could be depended on to stay, were to offer themselves, they would have been gladly accepted. But as a rule white domestic labor such as it is has constantly been tried and found wanting. White laborers attracted from the East by the prices here, invariably "fall into the ways of the country," and refuse to work at anything like what ordinary employers of labor consider reasonable or practicable rates. The relief given by Chinese aid to overworked households when sorely needed created a good feeling towards them. This good feeling lasted for some time. Their number was limited and no serious fears had yet been entertained of their competition in the labor market.

8. This good feeling continued more or less until about the time of the commencement of the Canadian Pacific Railway works in the province.

9. Then a very laudable feeling arose that, if possible, such a vast expenditure of public money should be utilized by bringing into the province white settlers, who should become heads of families, take root in the soil and add greatly to the substantial strength of the Dominion. To this end it was deemed desirable that all the labor on the railway should be white labor, whose earnings would be spent and invested in the country, instead of going to a foreign country. And then began the cry, “No Chinese need apply !" But experience soon showed that the hope of any exclusive employment of white labor was far from being realized. The American and continental railways were simultaneously large rival bidders in the labor market. White labor in quantity and quality sufficient was unattainable, and nothing is more certain than that in the absence of Chinese labor the enormous railway works, which are now progressing to completion, would have been indefinitely prolonged, if not postponed to the Greek Kalends from sheer want of hands. The outcry against the Chinese takes its rise in a great measure in the efforts of persons, who, for political motives, are desirous of posing themselves as the friends of the working classes, through their sweet votes to gain political power and influence. All political parties, the "ins " as well as the " outs," aim at this ; and through the press and orations, and even no little misrepresentation, -exaggerate. Admitted objections to their being adopted as citizens, and to too large an influx of a heathen element in our midst, were distorted into a desire for the proscription of the whole race. The bait to the working man : the exclusive command of the labor market. All political parties tend to this, and urge collectively the passing of laws which they do not hesitate, as individuals, to class as unconstitutional, in the hope that by constant clamor and agitation, in one direction, to overbear all the solid considerations on the other side, to break through all treaties which place Chinese on an equal footing with other nations, to impose illegal taxes and discriminating restrictions so that that may be obtained by injustice and persecution which could never be expected from justice and right. The object of course being to restrict the admission or, if possible, procure the total exclusion of Chinese labor and to win the sweet votes of the working man. The practical result of which, if successful, would necessarily be to create the worst of all monopolies, next to that of capital : the tyranny of labor under whose withering blight mines, fisheries, manufactures, arts, and improvements of all kinds would speedily languish or die, and the development of the country, to which it is undeniable the labor of the Chinese has so largely contributed, would be indefinitely retarded and cui bono ?

10. One chief outcry has been against their habits and mode of living as being injurious to the public peace and health. Coming from a swarming population in China, and, as I have stated, of the lower order of coolies, they have undoubtedly a tendency to congregate ; at all events to submit to being cooped in large numbers within a small area. But this in British Columbia is directly owing to the fact that as foreigners, held in dangerous disesteem by an active section of the whites, they naturally cling together for protection and support. Their very language keeps them together and apart from the whites; but much of this overcrowding is attributable to the whites themselves, who extort heavy rents from them for very scant house accommodation, and they accentuate the very evil for which in public they profess such profound dislike. Much has been said of their immorality, habits of prostitution, opium dens and gambling houses, and there is a. certain amount, indeed too great an amount, of truth in these accusations. It would be unreasonable to expect that a low class of laborers in any country should be free from such evils. All these, however, can be as readily dealt with by the police as the same vicious habits among the whites. Indeed the latter in several respects do not gain by the comparison. For the Chinese do not parade their vices ; their prostitutes do not set up large houses in the most prominent places, with brass plates on the door, or ply their trade with an air of semi-publicity, nor drive about in open carriages, or flaunt themselves on public race courses and assemblages, or advertise for the payment of debts due to them through the medium of the public press. Their "opium dens " and "gambling dens " are all known to the police and capable of being suppressed. But what of the white dens : whiskey establishments, and gambling saloons, and the sale of liquor to Indians, who get it by the canoe load and wholesale ? I do not say that all these evils whether white or Chinese should not be determinedly suppressed, but there is such a manifest spirit of exaggeration in the complaints that are made, for the purpose I have described, as very materially to lessen in impartial eyes the accusations levelled against the Chinese. They are as a class very cleanly in their persons ; indeed, as to all those matters laid to their charge, they are no worse than the same things done in our midst by white men themselves. If enquiry were made of the railway servants and the engineers on the permanent railway cuttings, what an account they can give of white, as well as Chinese abominations that abound there. Who that has seen a leading mainland town on the railway line on pay-days can ever forget the disgusting sights that everywhere met his eyes ? Furious drunken men in the streets, saloons and corners at all hours of the day and night, week-days and Sundays all alike, the fights, the uproar, the gambling, that made day and night hideous, besotted drunken whites kicked out of the houses, prostrate in the morning in the places where they fell over night sleeping off the effects of the previous debauch, only to stagger up and engage again in the same round of vice. These are the sights which one would fain forget, with other things about which the pen blushes to write.

11. But without the Chinese in any event the province could never have been developed as far as it has at present progressed. The best test of that is that we cannot, at present at all events, do without them. Their presence is not only necessary but in many respects desirable for the simple reason that the work must be done, and can only be done-in a province and by people, still very poor-through the agency of the Chinese or some similar labor. There is none other procurable at present which can do the work well.

13. If we ask ourselves what would be the effect of their suddenly going hence compulsorily or otherwise, the answer is immediate and overwhelming. The railway works would "peter out" for want of labor to construct them. The canneries would instantly be stopped. The shoe and other manufactories the same. The farmers would be at once injuriously affected. The coal mines would in several most important instances be abandoned. Improvements now only possible by Chinese labor would come to a sudden end, and the misery-domestic misery to 80 out of every 100 families here-would, to those who have not gone through it for so many years as we have, be inconceivable. It would be perfectly appalling. The wail of the housewife would sweep through the land, and find a very decided expression in every husband's vote at the polls, and that in a manner not very flattering to those who now affect to be the white laborer's friends. There is an unreality about this outcry against the Chinese that strikes one directly he takes pen in hand to write about the cry. on the subject. The advocates of exclusion make all the greater fuss over it, one is tempted to opine, the less likelihood they may think there is of its being carried out. The strike of the Chinese in Victoria when resisting an intentionally discriminating and illegal tax of $30 a head on all Chinese-although it occurred a few years ago-is too fresh in the recollection to be forgotten. The travelling public would soon let their voices be heard against such an exclusion ; for hotels and boarding houses would be shut up, or offer utterly inadequate accommodation. Every house would have to grow its own vegetables or pay an extortionate white price for them. Indeed the whole country would be in an uproar, and all its industries and progress would receive a check from which it would take many years of great suffering to recover-and for what ? All for a political cry : "We are ruined by Chinese cheap labor !" Yes ! The commonest manual labor cheap at from $15 to $35 a month and found !

14. The real fact is, and the more completely it is recognized the better, that we cannot do without a certain number of Chinese for manual labor and for domestic servants, and that throughout all British Columbia. For any great works, too, which have to be carried out, such for instance as railways, Chinese manual labor cannot at present be dispensed with. Good white labor is so far superior to Chinese, that it will of itself, when it can be contented with reasonable prices as in the East, infallibly work Chinese manual labor out of the field. No reasonable man will employ the labor of a person whose language he can never understand if he can get even as good service from one who cannot mistake his orders and can enter into all his wishes for the work in hand. But what is as necessary for the white man as the Chinaman is, that he should be sober, honest and steady at his work, and exhibit a fair share of all those qualities which go to constitute good labor. A certain number are at present an absolute necessity. At present all told, including the Chinese on railway works, and along the whole line, about 13,000. Of these there are probably only 5,000 or 6,000 engaged in domestic and family out-door work in the province including those in mines and canneries. So useful indeed have they been found that even in coal mines they have been employed by working miners themselves to assist them as their servants in getting out the, coal. They do not compete at all with mechanics, artisans, or handicraftsmen, or in any skilled labor. They are good market-gardeners, fair servants, and tolerable laborers; imitate quickly and learn quickly, and are good traders and merchants et voilà tout. They will never assimilate with the Anglo-Saxon race, nor is it desirable that they should. Certain degrees of labor contract of limited duration, amounting while it lasts to a species of slavery, are said to be common among them. Like all low classes of people they have a low estimate of women. They do not regard British Columbia as their home and when they die send their bones home to he buried in China.

15. It is very difficult, almost an impossibility, to fix any definite limit or even approximate of the proportion which Chinese immigration should bear to white immigration, if the best interests of the colony and the comfort of the people are to be regarded ; and if only for this reason that no matter how many white people come to British Columbiah, they all come expecting certain rates, rates which British Columbians have not got the money to pay. If they do not get these rates, it is not as in Australia where they are obliged to stay, they can just skip over the boundary line into the United States, and there even if they do not get what they exact, they get more than than they can in a more newly settled country, and we never see them again. They go to swell the numbers and volume of the United States, just as the Swift, the Quesnelle, the Thompson and Lillctt Rivers and other affluents go to swell the depth and volume of the Fraser, or the colonies of England add strength and depth and volume to the British Empire. If restriction of the Chinese took place, those who are here already would at once raise their price, and thus the very object of the anti-Chinese would be indirectly gained, and we should once more be without domestic help, once more thrown back twenty years upon our own resources. If one could venture on an estimate it would be at the rate of one Chinaman to each family, counting as in Europe each average family as consisting of four persons. Probably, if there were no great railway or other works to be considered, if twenty per cent. of the population were Chinese, we might get on fairly well. But every one of these would at once on his arrival find remunerative employment.

16. If the domestic servants coming from Europe or other parts of America were the only ones we could obtain, no persons of capital would (if they knew the truth) think of coming to British Columbia. They can get all the comforts and luxuries they may wish in other and cheaper places. They simply would not come-that is come to reside.

17. The answers I have already given to the previous questions sufficiently answer this one, except as to this :

18. I do not think at present any restriction on Chinese immigration is necessary or expedient. Time should be given to see whether those at present in the country who are engaged solely on railway works, will not leave the country altogether as soon as the works which drew them hither are concluded. Though possessed of all the qualities I have described, Chinamen do not make good settlers in the sense of raising up citizens of a free. and progressive country, which must in the course of years aspire to nationality however far remote the time. Miscegenation with the race is on any scale impossible. Patriotism is not known among them. In their legal contentions in court among their economies is a remarkable economy of truth. Six witnesses will get up and swear positively and to the point on one side, when six will get up and swear point blank the reverse, contradicting every allegation with a circumstance. This may be attributable to two things : our ignorance of the proper mode of binding their conscience by an oath, or our ignorance of their language which prevents our being able to sift out the truth as we could when white witnesess swear directly opposite to each other with respect to the same facts.

19. As to a combined effort of the people and the legislature to encourage white immigration, I do not believe, though most of all to be desired and encouraged, that such a combination, with the unlimited United States alongside, would succeed to any appreciable extent. The moment this combined effort "furnished an effectual supply of white labor " to the colour at any given time, I cannot possibly believe that it would stay supplied. The moment an immigrant " laborer " touches British Columbia he becomes in his own mind a boss (as it is termed) and will do as little manual labor as he can help. I exclude from this consideration all choppers, timber-men and the like. They never seem to lose the old time spirit for their work. The axe to them is a handicraft which no white man not born or educated up to the mark, can imitate. So with the regular miner and blaster. He is almost alone in his art; but I speak of the mere laborer. He can get rich land and a homestead for a mere nothing and become a farmer, and in a short time an employer of labor himself, looking out very likely for " the first Chinaman that comes along " whom he may " boss.'

20. To the question can white people find now remunerative employment and steady work and a provision for old age, I answer, yes, most certainly, plenty of work .. if they do not want it all at once. That is the trouble. The world, the Columbia world, is to him that can work and wait ; and I may add success requires here the same kind of qualities as ensure it anywhere else, sobriety, industry and honesty. Here there are no poor. To men with such qualities success is a mere question of time, especially here. British Columbia with its opportunities, unrivalled climate, regular succession of seasons, and unlimited resources, is a paradise to the poor man.

21. The railway and the opening of the railway lands has already had a marked effect upon the immigration of settlers to this province. I presume it is within the scope of these enquiries to add that survey should precede  or as quickly as possible overtake " settlement," and much more information as to what lands in particular are open to settlement should be given to intending settlers. There has been a great stride in that direction under the present government of the province, but it is a difficult thing to do, and certain preparation is required. But these things prepared, a great increase of immigration can well be provided for in British Columbia. There is a very erroneous impression about the agricultural capabilities of British Columbia, or I should say incapabilities. It cannot be called an agricultural country, compared with the level, arable plains of the interior of North America ; but there is good agricultural land enough to support millions of population, but first comers require assistance, British Columbia is so far away from most countries.

22. Instead of being retarded by Chinese immigration, I am fully persuaded that white immigration has been assisted by it. I know of retired officers and persons of settled incomes who would not have thought of coming here if they had not known that Chinese servants could he had here, though very indifferent compared with those one can obtain in China itself.

23. I do not think the effect produced by the Chinese on the morals of the whites has been a beneficial one, for the simple fact that they are heathens, and some quantity, I believe, of the whites are Christians. But where there are white people of allied habits to the immoral among the Chinese they are more likely to be injurious to their fellow whites than any Chinese, not only from intelligent depravity, but because they have from their language greater facility in communicating the moral virus and ill example to both old and young.

24. No. The proportion of immoral people among the Chinese here is not more than among white people similarly situated, where there are no immoral persons Chinese.

25. For open wickedness and parade of vice, for the public defence and spread of it in various alluring forms, for the numbers of youths inoculated by it, there is no comparison between the two; white vice and depravity are far ahead, more insidious, more alluring, more permanently injurious.

26. I have no personal knowledge whatever of the presence of leprosy among the Chinese. Now and then one hears a report to that effect, but in those cases reported upon by English doctors they have denied altogether its existence. They have, I believe, some singular and peculiar illnesses among themselves, such as produce wasting away and death, but these do not spread beyond themselves, although said to be almost invariably fatal among that people.

27. No. I have not spoken of the legal aspect of the Chinese question, restrict or exclude as that is not before me ; nor have I alluded to the treaties, as these subjects will naturally come in their order before the Commission, and are, after all, matter of diplomatic negotiation. But I do as a citizen and a very old, early pioneer of British Columbia, deprecate any active step whatever being taken, since my opinion has been asked-certainly for the present either to restrict or exclude Chinese immigration into British Columbia. It would not take so much as is generally supposed to drive them entirely out of the country, the effect of which would be simply disastrous. I am aware it is a matter even now in serious discussion among some of their leading men here, and these have been advised before taking any active step in that direction to await the result of this Commission. Of its existence and objects they are well aware, and expect its report with an interest they do not affect to conceal, for it will, for good or evil, affect, and that perhaps for a long period, enormous interests-social, financial, and political.

HENRY P. PELLEW CREASE.


14th & 15th July, Certiorari—“Chinese Regulation Act, 1884,” s. 5—Constitutionality—B.N.A. Act, 1867, ss. 91, 92—“Aliens”—“Trade and Commerce”—Taxation. 
On the return to a writ of certiorari. Held, that the “Chinese Regulation Act, 1884,” is ultra vires of the Provincial Legislature, on the following grounds: 
1. It is an interference with the rights of Aliens. 
2. It is an interference with Trade and Commerce. 
3. It is an infraction of the existing treaties between the Imperial Government and China. 
4. It imposes unequal taxation. 

14th & 15th July—On the return of a writ of certiorari directed to Edwin Johnson, Esquire, Police Magistrate for the City of Victoria, to return into this Court a certain conviction made by him under which one Wing Chong was fined $20 for not having in his possession a license issued under the “Chinese Regulation Act, 1884.”

The Attorney-General in support of the conviction said there were five points raised on the rule for the certiorari against the validity of the $10 tax.—1st. That it interfered with the Dominion powers under the B. N. A. Act, aliens, and naturalization; 2nd. Trade and commerce; 3rd. Treaty obligations; 4th. That the tax was unequal, and 5th. It was indirect taxation. As to the first point aliens were as much subject to taxation as citizens. Protection and taxation were reciprocal (Cooley on Taxation, p. 14). The law did not deal with the conditions under which aliens might acquire rights or become subjects of Her Majesty. Secondly—Trade and commerce were not interfered with. The object of the Act was two-fold, the police and sanitary regulation of a numerous foreign element, and the raising of revenue necessary to meet that regulation (Hodge v. The Queen, L. R. 9, App. Cas. 117). If incidentally trade and commerce were touched, the provincial power of direct taxation was not impaired (Citizens Insurance Co. v. Parsons, L. R. 7 App. Cas. 108). The preamble and scope of the Act showed its objects were purely matters of the police and raising of revenue to meet the necessary expenditure, and within “Direct Taxation.” Thirdly—The treaty obligations of England did not affect the question. The last communication from the Secretary of State for the Colonies to the Governor-General, dated 16th May, 1884, stated, in effect, that the Colonies with responsible government could pass restrictive laws irrespective of treaties (B. C. Sessional Papers, 1885, p. 464), and instanced the legislation of the Australian Colonies and of the Dominion. Fourthly—As to unequal taxation, the power of the Province within its jurisdiction was supreme and as plenary as that of the Imperial Parliament (R. v. Burah, L.R. 3 App. Cas. 904; R. v. Hodge, L. R. 9, App. Cas. 117; and Powell v. Apollo Candle Co., L.R. 10 App. Cas., p. 290; and *In re Goodhue*, 19 Gr. 366); *Cooley* on Taxation, pp. 3, 82, 126-128, and *Cooley's Constitutional Limitations* (5th Ed.) 626-7; *Sedgwick* on Stat. (2nd Ed.), p. 501; *Potter's Dwarris* 418, 421, 425; *Dow v. Black*, L. R. 6 P. C. 272, were cited as showing the power of taxation, unless abridged by the written constitution, might be exercised so as to discriminate. The Supreme Court of Canada, in the case of *Jonas v. Gilbert*, 5 S. C. R., 356, had practically decided the same point. Fifthly—Whether called a licence or not, the imposition was a direct poll tax, and as such came within the power of the Province to raise money by direct taxation for Provincial purposes. *Cooley* on Taxation, 386; *Wharton's Law Lexicon*; *Reed v. Mousseau*, 8 S. C. R., 408. It was not a license to carry on business, or a method whereby indirectly money was raised from the consumer, as, for instance, customs or stamp laws.

*Richards*, Q. C., for Wing Chong—The object of the Act was not for police purposes or to raise revenue. Its object, though not apparent on the face of the Act, was to prevent Chinese coming into the Province and drive out those who had already come. He reviewed the legislation against Chinese since confederation, contending it was levelled against a particular race of aliens and, therefore, beyond provincial control, per *Gwynne*, J., in *Citizens Insurance Co. v. Parsons*, 4 S. C. R., at p. 346. The law was a direct interference with trade and commerce (*R. v. Severn*, 2 Can. S. C. R., 70). If its object were successful and Chinese driven from the country, the customs dues received from the Chinese would be lost and the benefits of trade relations enjoyed by the merchants would be destroyed. Counsel cited statistics from the Chinese Commission showing the extreme importance, from a fiscal and commercial point of view, of the large number of Chinese in the Province. The Dominion under the B. N. A. Act had alone the right of performing in Canada the obligations of Canada as part of the British Empire in respect of treaties, and although Canada might pass laws prohibiting immigration, or having that tendency, the Province could not do so, nor could it pass laws in derogation of treaties. He cited the British treaty (25th August, 1842, from *Hertslet*, Vol. 6, and Lord *Elgin's* treaty, 1860), comparing it with the *Burlingame* treaty of the United States, and quoted California decisions (*Lin Sing v. Washburn*, 20 Cal. 334), and the decision of *Gray*, J., in *Tai Sing v. Maguire*, deciding that similar legislation was held void as contravening the treaty and the sovereign power to regulate trade and commerce with foreign countries. 

*Drake*, Q. C., on the same side, argued that the imposition of the $10 tax was invalid because of inequality. Inherent in and incidental to the taxing power was the characteristic of equality. *Cooley* stated that irrespective of constitutional limitation a particular class of citizens could not be burdened for the advantage of others—*Cooley's Constitutional Limitations*, p. 635. This was a principle underlying the power to tax and governing that right even though the CREASE, J. 1885. REGINA v. WING CHONG. written constitution made no mention of it—Cooley on Taxation, p. 18, and City of Lexington v. McQuillan, 35 Am. Dec. 159. The imposition was in derogation of treaty rights with which Canada alone had the power to deal. The Australian legislation did not help the contention of the Attorney-General. The Australian Colonies were autonomous, and occupied the same position as that of Canada. The Provinces were not autonomous. He did not contend that the whole of the Act was invalid. Much of it was within the scope of the Province, notably the provisions affecting the size of dwellings, the forbidding the use of opium, and the desecration of grave-yards. He insisted that imposing excessive taxation on one class of citizens was unconstitutional. The remarks of Chief Justice Ritchie, in the case of Jonas v. Gilbert before the Supreme Court of Canada, were obiter dicta, as the decision was upon another point, and intimated, but did not decide the right of the Provinces to discriminate, nor in what things and to what extent discrimination in taxation was legitimate. Lastly, the Act was for indirect taxation, which was a power given only to the Dominion Parliament. It was a license fee, the power to impose which had, in Severn v. The Queen, been decided against the Provinces on the score of such legislation being against trade and commerce. 

The Attorney-General in reply—The ten dollar impost was a tax whether designated by the name of a licence or otherwise. The distinction between direct and indirect taxation was well drawn in the case of Reed v. Mousseau before the Supreme Court of Canada, in which Mr. Justice Strong mentioned the Privy Council had decided the Provincial legislatures had exclusive power to impose direct taxation, and that it did not follow they might not have power even to impose indirect taxation. The tax did not sanction the carrying on of any business out of the product of which the consumer would, indirectly, contribute towards payment of the tax. Then as to inequality, the one dictum of Cooley was but an expression of opinion that political wisdom required uniform taxation; for the same author cited numerous authorities, including that of the Supreme Court of the United States establishing the right to discriminate unless fettered by the express language of the Constitution. Todd on Parliamentary Government in the Colonies, supported the view that the Provinces within their jurisdiction were as omnipotent as the Imperial Parliament. The California cases (see The People v. Naglee, 1 Cal. 232) decided a differential tax might be imposed on foreign miners; and though a later case (Lin Sing v. Washburn, 20 Cal. 334) had decided a special tax could not be imposed on Chinese, a most celebrated Judge, Mr. Justice Field (since elevated to the Federal bench), dissented, and had pointed out that according to federal decisions the State might impose special taxation on alien residents, provided the impost was not levied against foreigners landing in the country. The tax was not to exclude the Chinese — another statute with that object had been disallowed. It was imposed to meet the extraordinary expenses incident to enforcing the police and sanitary regulations prescribed by the Act. The question of treaties had nothing to do with the subject, for to responsible governments the Imperial Authorities conceded the right to pass laws within their jurisdiction. So the Canadian Parliament to-day was passing a restriction Act. Opponents to the Act might as well contend the exclusion of the Chinese from the franchise, and barring them from acquiring lands, was illegal. As to autonomy, neither the Australian Colonies nor the Dominion were absolutely possessed, but the Province equally with Australia and the Dominion were autonomous within the bounds of their respective jurisdictions. 

21st August, 1885—CREASE, J.— In order to deal satisfactorily with the questions raised by this appeal, it is necessary to see what is the scope and purport of the Act. It is called "An Act to regulate the Chinese population of British Columbia." It starts with a recital, in itself a petio principii—not apparently the result of any public enquiry—which charges them with being not law-abiding, dissimilar in habits and occupation to the whites—useless in emergencies, habitual desecrators of grave-yards, unsuited to our laws, and of habits subversive of the community. From that premises concluding that special laws are required for their government, it proceeds to enact:— 

1. The title.

2. Defines Chinese to mean "any native of the Chinese empire or "its dependencies not born of British parents, and shall include any "person of the Chinese race." 

Section 3—with which we are immediately concerned—says:—"From and after the passage of this Act there shall be payable and "paid by every Chinese in British Columbia, above the age of fourteen years, unto and for the use of Her Majesty, her heirs and successors, the sum of ten dollars, and thereafter on the 1st day of June in "each and every year there shall be likewise payable and paid by such "Chinese person a further sum of ten dollars." 

Sec. 4 provides for the appointment and payment of special collectors, "to be called Chinese collectors, to collect and receive such "payments from Chinese; and such collector or collectors, immediately upon such payment, shall issue and deliver to the person paying "the same a licence in the form contained in the schedule hereto." 

By Sec. 5 "Any Chinese who shall be found within the Province "not having in his possession a licence issued under the provisions of "this Act, lawfully issued to him, shall, on conviction thereof, forfeit "and pay a sum not exceeding forty dollars." 

By Sec. 6 "Any collector or Government servant wilfully disobeying "any of the provisions of this Act shall forfeit and pay a sum not "exceeding one hundred dollars." 

By Sec. 7 "Every collector shall collect the tax from each Chinese, "and shall as soon afterwards as may be pay over the amount to the "officer in charge of the Treasury, or to such other person as the "Lieutenant-Governor in Council may from time to time direct."  

By Sec. 8 “Every employer of Chinese shall furnish to the collector “when requested by him so to do, from time to time, a list of all “Chinese in his employ, or indirectly employed by him; but no such “statement shall bind the collector, nor shall excuse him from “making due enquiry to ascertain its correctness.” 

Section 9. “In case any employer of Chinese fails to deliver to the “collector the list mentioned in the preceding section, when required “so to do, or knowingly states anything falsely therein, such “employer shall, on complaint of the collector and upon conviction “before a Justice of the Peace having jurisdiction within the “district wherein such employer carries on his business, forfeit “and pay a fine not exceeding one hundred dollars for every Chinese “in his employ, to be recovered by distress of the goods and chattels “of such employer failing to pay the same, or in lieu thereof shall be “liable to imprisonment for a period not less than one month and not “exceeding two calendar months.”

Section 10 gives the collector power to “levy the amount of the license from any Chinese not being in lawful possession of a license, “with costs, by distress of his goods and chattels, or of any goods and “chattels which may be in the possession of the delinquent, or which “may be upon or in any premises (whether the goods of the delin- “quent or not) for the time being in the possession or occupation of “such delinquent Chinese,” and declares that “for the purposes of this “section premises shall be deemed to be in the possession or occupa- “tion of any Chinese when it can be shown to the satisfaction of the “tribunal having cognizance of the matter (a) that such Chinese “habitually frequents such premises with the assent of the owner ; “(b) that he is the owner or one of the owners of the premises, or has “control, either alone or jointly, with another or others, of such pre- “mises or some part thereof; (c) that he has passed the night or slept “upon such premises at any time within a week of the levy, it shall “be sufficient authority for the collector to levy as aforesaid on the “non-production of the license. Proof of the lawful possession of “such receipt shall lie on the person whose goods are restrained.” 

By section 11 every license must be demanded by the employer and retained during the Chinaman’s service. 

By section 12 tax collectors are not to allow Chinese to pass unless a license is produced. 

Section 13 imposes a penalty of $50 on any person guilty of employing any Chinese not having a license. 

Sec. 14 Fee for free miner’s certificate to a Chinese to be $15, instead of the white man's $5. 

Sec. 15. Penalty not exceeding $30 for every Chinaman mining without a license. 

Section 16 amends the License Ordinance of 1867, whereby the pursuit of various callings is sanctioned by the ominous words, “but no license shall be issued to any Chinese.” 

Sections 17 and 18 prevent the exhumation of dead bodies without permission, and prohibit the use of opium except for medical purposes. 

Section 19 provides for the recovery of any pecuniary penalty thereunder in a summary manner before a J. P., and in default of immediate payment sanctions a distress, and failing that, imprisonment for not exceeding three months. 

Section 20 (amended by Act of 1885) declares that "convictions are not to be quashed for want of form." 

Section 21. “Any Chinese who shall lend his license or free miner's "certificate to another Chinese, and any Chinese who shall utter or "pass off upon any collector or other person any license or free miner's "certificate other than his own, with intent himself to avoid payment" of the license fee payable under this Act (and the onus of proving “that such was not his intent shall rest upon the person charged), shall "forfeit and pay a penalty of not less than twenty dollars nor more "than one hundred dollars." 

Section 22 enacts that the tribunal applied to may decide "on its own view and judgment" whether any person is a Chinese or 14 years old. 

Sections 23, 24 and 25 contain sanitary provisions affecting buildings let to Chinese. 

Section 26 provides a means whereby persons imprisoned for an infraction of the Act may be put to hard labour by an Order in Council, and the same executive authority is empowered to make rules and regulations for carrying out the Act. 

Section 27 places in the hand of the local executive the construction from time to time of further rules and regulations to enforce the Act, and a fitting summary to such a premiss in section 28 reverses all the old law of England and one of the most cherished and priceless safeguards of the freedom from oppression won for us by our forefathers—that no one shall be deemed guilty until he has been proved so—throws on the defendant, white or yellow, the burden of proving that he is exempt from the operation of its arbitrary provisions—and in a tax Act which is in restraint of personal liberty, and opposed to the common law rights of the citizen—for if applicable to aliens it is a fortiori to the temporary inhabitants of the Province—abrogates the hitherto invariable rule in criminal matters and makes it unnecessary in any information, summons or conviction to “state or negotiate any “exception in or exemption under this Act, or in contemplation of “law.” Taught by experience of former efforts in the same direction, section 29 gives one year’s notice of the coming into operation of the Act—a time which has now expired. And section 30 terms it merely “The Chinese Regulation Act, 1884.” 

The only schedule is the form of license, which runs as follows:—

The question now raised on the construction of this Act affects not only British Columbia, but, as she occupies the only Pacific seaboard of the Dominion, indirectly more or less the very many other Provinces under the flag of confederation. 
Taking for convenience the five points of objection to the conviction in the order in which they are made— 
1. That it interfered with the Dominion powers under the B. N. A. Act over aliens and naturalization. 
2. Trade and commerce. 
3. Treaty obligations. 
4. That the tax was unequal. 
5. That it was indirect taxation and therefore illegal, and should be quashed. 

On the first point, I would observe that it is now well settled law that British Columbia, as a part of the Dominion, possesses all, but possesses only, the powers which are strictly defined by the B. N. A. Act of 1867, which is, indeed, the constitution of Canada.

Neither she nor any other of the Provinces possess any other powers of legislation than are conferred by that Act. If British Columbia, or any other Province, in its legislation, goes beyond that Act and in excess of its provisions, that moment, and to the extent of such transgression, it ceases to be law. Therefore, in dealing with this question, our constitutional Act must be kept in view throughout, as the measure by which we must continually gauge the legality or illegality of the provisions of the local statute under consideration. 

The Act of Federation was passed in order to be an irrefragable, permanent standard by which to preserve and regulate all the relative rights of the Provinces, as among themselves and as regards the Dominion. 

The exclusive powers of that Act given to the Dominion over particular subjects are contained in the 91st section. The exclusive powers of the Province are particularized in section 92. It is natural that in the working out of such a constitution in a new and growing country, questions should be continually cropping up, and call upon the Courts to define gradually and with greater exactness, as time progresses and population expands, the relative powers given by the Act to the Dominion and Provinces respectively. Sub-section 2 of section 91 gives to the Dominion Parliament exclusively the regulation of “trade and commerce,” and by sub-section 25 that of “naturalization and aliens,” and everything relating to those subjects as affecting the whole Dominion is within the Dominion powers, and no local Legislature can make any statute interfering with either of those subjects. If it does, so far as such interference extends it is illegal and void, and when brought before the Court it is the duty of that tribunal so to adjudge it.

And the converse of this is true when applied to Dominion legislation as affecting the subjects exclusively given by the constitution to the Province. 

Now, applying this test to the statute before us, let us see whether and how far its provisions affect, as is alleged, aliens, or trade, or commerce. 

The aliens in this case being Chinese, the first enquiry must be, what is the object of the Act? On applying to the preamble, we find that it looks like a bill of indictment as against a race not suited to live among a civilized nation, and certainly does not prepare one for legislation which would encourage or tolerate their settlement in the country. Indeed, the first lines of the preamble sound an alarm at the multitude of people coming in, who are of the repulsive habits described in the last part of the preamble, and prepares one for measures which should have a tendency to abate that alarm by deterrent influences and enactments which should have the effect of materially lessening the number of such undesirable visitors. The provisions of the Act I have given somewhat in extenso bear out that view, and the concurrent and previous local legislation bear out the same impression, for on the same day as this Act was passed, another Act was passed, the very object of which was plainly stated to be "to prevent the immigration" of Chinese." 

That Act was disallowed. It interfered with aliens as well as trade and commerce, which cannot subsist among nations without personal intercourse, which such an Act (as far as China was concerned) would have a tendency to prohibit. 

Another statute (of 1878), "An Act to provide for the better collection of taxes from Chinese," which contained several of the stringent provisions which I have described in this Act, such as a special tax specially recoverable by summary and unusual remedies from the Chinese alone, in British Columbia, and enforced by fine and imprisonment and other penal clauses, came before this Court, and in a most conscientious and exhaustive judgment of Mr. Justice Gray, of 23rd September, 1878, in the case of Tai Sing v. Maguire, was declared unconstitutional and ultra vires the Local Legislature, as interfering with aliens and trade and commerce—matters reserved exclusively under the 81st section of the B. N. A. Act to the Dominion. That decision was never appealed from, and was at once acted on by the government as conclusive. 

The position and legislative powers of British Columbia have been in no respect altered in its relations to the legislative powers of the Dominion on the same subjects since that time, though Russell v. The Queen (7 App. Cas. 829) and Hodge v. The Queen (9 App. Cas. 117) have more fully defined the extent of the powers of the Provincial Legislatures than has hitherto been done; and in the latter case especially. That decision, however, was not before Mr. Gray when he rendered the judgment in Tai Sing v. Maguire. Until reversed or varied, the decision in the Hodge case is law here, and binding on this Court. 

Their lordships say (page 132), with reference to the objection of the appellants there (delegatus non potest delegare):—
"It appears to their lordships, however, that the objection thus raised by the appellants is founded on an entire misconception of the true character and position of the Provincial Legislatures. They are in no sense delegates of or acting under any mandate from the Imperial Parliament. When the British North America Act enacted that there should be a Legislature for Ontario" (for this case we may for "Ontario" read "British Columbia"), "and that its Legislative Assembly should have exclusive authority to make laws for the Province and for provincial purposes in relation to the matters enumerated in section 92, it conferred powers not in any sense to be exercised by delegation from or as agents of the Imperial Parliament, but authority as plenary and as ample within the limits prescribed by section 92 as the Imperial Parliament in the plenitude of its power possessed and could bestow. Within these limits of subjects and area the Local Legislature is supreme." 

[So far this decision confirms the words of Lord Selborne in R. v. Burah; what follows goes beyond it.] "And has the same authority as the Imperial Parliament or the Parliament of the Dominion would have had under like circumstances to confide to a municipal institution or body of its own creation authority to make by-laws or resolutions as to subjects specified in the enactment, and with the object of carrying the enactment into operation and effect." 

That decision, although in some respects an obiter dictum, as regards this case, makes it clear that within the limits of subjects and the area prescribed by the B. N. A. Act, by section 92, the Legislature of British Columbia is supreme. The basis, then, of our enquiry must be: Is this Chinese Regulation Act of 1884—rather the parts of it objected to—within the limit of subjects and area of section 92, or does it exceed those limits in which it is supreme, and interfere with aliens, trade and commerce in such a manner as to encroach on section 91 or any of its sub-sections? If so, so far as it does so, it is unconstitutional and ultra vires, and therefore void. Now it does not follow because a local Act touches on these three subjects it therefore interferes with them so as to render it unconstitutional. 

Aliens may be taxed, may be subjected to the same rules and municipal and other by-laws as other inhabitants of British Columbia, and such discrimination in so doing as are allowed in local legislatures between and among different persons and occupations among the whites are quite as applicable to them. These are the only discriminations which the law allows, and these are the permissible discriminations spoken of by Cooley in the portions cited before the Court. During the argument the case of *Lin Sing v. Washburn*, 20 California Reports, 534, was quoted as bearing on this case. There, an Act of the California Legislature passed an Act imposing a capitation tax “on ‘each person, male and female, of the Mongolian race of the age of 18 years and upwards residing in the State,’ accompanying a license almost a *fac simile* of our own, and enforced in much the same way as in the case before us, that, after long and elaborate argument in which the Attorney-General appeared for the State, was determined to be unconstitutional, as it was an interference with trade and commerce, which could be regulated alone by the general government. It was in vain advanced that at least the State had concurrent jurisdiction in matters of taxation relative to its own internal affairs, of which this was one (the same proposition as was advanced by the Attorney-General in this case) in which it had a supreme and autonomous right to legislate. And the grounds of this decision were that the federal constitution had vested in the general government the power to regulate commerce in all its branches (as with us in the Dominion); and this power extends to every species of commercial intercourse, and may be exercised upon persons as well as property (Mr. Justice Field, whose arguments have been reproduced by the Attorney-General before me in this case, dissenting). 

That commerce cannot be carried on without the agency of persons, and the tax, the effect of which is to diminish personal intercourse, is a tax on commerce. If the power to impose such a tax is acknowledged, it being a sovereign power, no limitation can be affixed to its exercise, and it may be so used as not only to diminish but destroy commerce. 

The power asserted in the Act in question (the California Act) is the right of the State to prescribe the terms upon which the Chinese shall be permitted to reside in it, and be so used as to cut off all intercourse between them and the people of the State, and defeat the commercial policy of the nation. 

That the Act could not be maintained as a police regulation; that a branch of the police power had been surrendered to the Federal Government as a part of the power to regulate commerce, and its exercise by a State was incompatible with the authority of the Government. 

That the Chinese might be taxed as other residents, but could not be set apart as special objects of the taxation, and be compelled to contribute to the revenue of the State in the character of foreigners. 

The reports of the higher California courts are of great authority for us on all Chinese questions, for there have been efforts for years past to restrict Chinese immigration in California, and the matter has been constantly before the superior courts there, and the judges there (if we may take the reports as correct) are more than ordinarily skilled in laying down the law correctly in constitutional points of that nature. Indeed, there is no other country which has such experience generally in constitutional law as applicable to a federation of states. 

Of course, in all the observations I make I recognize the now well-known distinction between the relations of a State of the Union to the Federal Government, and our relation as a Province to the Dominion. Still both Federal Governments have reserved to themselves the regulation of trade and commerce and naturalization and aliens; so the analogy is so close as to become almost a direct authority. 

In the *Lin Sin* judgment, p. 579, the learned judge says of the power of taxing foreigners, as in the present *qua* foreigners: “If the power exist it may be exercised upon all foreigners residing in the State, and may be so exercised as to bar the door of foreign commerce as effectually as the Government could do by issuing its man-“date and closing its ports." 

And again "to determine whether there is a conflict or not, i.e., of jurisdictions, the power must be considered with reference to its consequences, for its effect when carried out is the only criterion by which a judgment can be formed."

In another place he says:—"It would be an empty sound to say that the several States cannot pass any law to prevent foreigners from coming here if they may pass laws which will compel such foreigners to depart as soon as they arrive." 

And again, "A tax imposed by the law on these persons for the mere right to reside here, is an appropriate and effective means to discourage the immigration of the Chinese into the State."

During the argument on the case before me, the Attorney-General claims that this was direct taxation, and a direct tax within the Province, to raise revenue for Provincial purposes, and, therefore *intra vires*; but the question is not one of name but of fact. Does it interfere with trade or commerce? Can it be legally imposed on foreigners as foreigners, for even a legal tax in other respects becomes illegal when it goes beyond its proper limits, and interferes with powers exclusively given to the Dominion for the benefit of all? 

In another California case, *In re Tiburcio Parrott*, it is laid down that if the apparent object of a statute is under a pretense of the exercise of constitutional powers to drive Chinese away, the end sought to be obtained being unlawful, the statute is void. 

In *Russell v. Reg.* it is decided that the true nature and character of legislation must be determined in order to ascertain its legality. 

In *Citizens Insurance Co. v. Parsons*, we have to look at the legislation for the same purpose. 

If the legislation here be to drive people from the country, have the local legislature the power? Legislation as to aliens is reserved to the Dominion. And as to trade and commerce, if the Chinese be driven out an annual loss to the revenue, it appears by the tables in the Chinese Commission Report, of $110,000 will take place; and more than $1,500,000 of property and business be lost to us, besides an injury to trade to an incalculable extent. The amount of business transacted by Chinamen in British Columbia, as revealed by the tables in that Chinese Report, is something which a casual observer would have no idea of. 

The treaties between Great Britain and China, which bind us, have been quoted. The treaty of 25th August, 1842, *Hertslet*, Vol. 6, ratified 26th June, 1843, p. 221, and Lord Elgin's treaty of October, 1860, authenticated copies of which were produced in Court, secure to Chinese coming into British dominions the same "full security for persons and property as subjects of Her Majesty." 

*Vattell*, cap. 8, referring to our obligations to foreigners, observes:— "As soon as the lord of the territory admits strangers into it he engages "to protect them as his own subjects, and to afford them perfect security as far as depends on him."

*Reg. v. Severn* and *Reg. v. Russell* are important authorities in guiding our enquiry as to the nature and effect of local legislation in determining whether and how far the Act under review exceeds the limits within which the local legislature is supreme. And as to the equality of taxation, besides *Cooley*, who has been quoted freely on both sides, in *Kent's Commentaries* (8th Ed.), 2nd Vol., 388, it is insisted—"That every person is entitled to be protected in the enjoyment of his property, not only from invasions of it by individuals, but from all unequal and undue assessments on the part of the Government. It is not sufficient that no tax or imposition can be imposed upon the citizens, but by their representatives in the legislature the citizens are entitled to require that the legislature itself shall cause all public taxation to be fair and equal in proportion to the value of 'property" (and that is what *Cooley* means by apportionment of taxation), "so that no class of individuals, and no species of property shall be unduly assessed." The treaties I have quoted between Great Britain and China, binding on the Dominion and on us in British Columbia, secure to the Chinese, just as the treaties between Great Britain and other foreign countries secure to other foreigners, the same rights in regard to the equality of taxation which I have described as being enjoyed by citizens of this country. 

These treaties have the force of international law, and are continued most strongly against the party for whose benefit they are introduced. 

In the case of the Chinese treaties, they were forced at the point of the bayonet on China, to obtain a right for us to enter China, and in return for a similar permission to us, full permission was given for the Chinese to trade and reside in British dominions everywhere. 

In the treaties of 1858 and 1860, made at the solicitation of Great Britain, the Emperor of China was induced to give permission to his subjects to go and trade and reside "in British Colonies," and to enter into "engagements with British subjects for that purpose." 

These obligations are binding here and in other parts of the Dominion under section 132 of the British North America Act, and no Province, or the Dominion itself, can lawfully pass laws interfering with that right without a previous revision of the treaties by the high contracting parties to them for that purpose. Treaties with foreign nations are above all ordinary municipal law, for obvious international reasons, for without such a provision there can be no permanent security, which is the life of all commercial intercourse. The same provisions that apply to Chinese may be made to apply also to Americans, Frenchmen, Germans, or any other foreigners. Such treaties are the especial care of the Dominion, and where local legislation clashes with that especial province of the Dominion, the legislation of the Province must give way, as laid down in Leprohon v. the City of Ottawa, 40 Q.B., Ont., 478; Reg. v. Chandler, Hannay's New Brunswick Reports, 548; Dow v. Black, L.R. 6 P.C. 272; L'Union St. Jacques v. Belisle, L.R. 6 P.C. 31, and numerous other Canadian authorities, besides the British North America Act itself. Now applying the principles and tests I have described to the Act before us, what do we find? The Act is found associated with another Act now disallowed, the express object of which is to prevent the Chinese altogether from coming to this country, and the principle "noscitur a sociis" is kept up by the preamble of the present Act, which describes the Chinese in terms which, I venture to think, have never before in any other country found a place in an Act of Parliament. 

In the definition of the persons affected by the Act no distinction is made of ambassadors, merchants, consuls, artists, professors or travellers, or sex, whether under disability or not, or at such a distance from a collector as to make it difficult or impossible to obtain a license. Every person of Chinese origin, whether naturalized in Hong Kong or America, or any other State with which we are at amity, so long as they are of Chinese origin, 14 years of age—every one without distinction—must take out a license. For the purpose of argument I have treated the license fee as a tax; but it is in fact a license—a license to remain in British Columbia unmolested for a year. When the legislature wanted to create a tax, they knew what words to use for the purpose, for in the sister Act passed on the same day, which was disallowed, they called the impost there enacted a "tax," not a license. However difficult or impossible for any Chinese to find a district collector, if such Chinese is "found without a license he is liable to a fine of $40." At every turn he is confronted with an exceptional duty, and an exceptional penalty, and the loss of his goods and chattels, and of personal liberty. 

It is impossible but that such an imposition so enforced, in addition to all the general taxes to which he is subject, should make this country too hot for him to live in; and just in proportion as he is so persecuted out of the country, in that degree does this enactment interfere with trade and commerce and that control over aliens exclusively given to the Dominion. And not only is he thus attacked, but unheard of provisions are introduced. Every employé of Chinese labour, whether English, American, or what not, is made liable to severe and incessant liability of a penal kind, for what? Some act, a default of his own? No; an act or default of a stranger, a man whose language he knows not, and for every infraction of the Act by the Chinese under his employ. The palpable object of such a provision, or set of provisions, is to render the employment of Chinese so distasteful and annoying to the employer that he must cease to employ them. Now, to pass a law providing that employment shall not be given to a special class of men, except it be productive of so much danger, annoyance, and loss to the employer, is just another way of saying that no intercourse shall be had with that class. With penalties and prosecutions always before you, far in excess of any advantage to be derived from that intercourse or trade, what is that but equivalent to saying that such intercourse or trade or labour must cease altogether. What is that but interfering with aliens, trade, and commerce? 

If a man employ a Chinaman who should happen to be delinquent in his tax, and he happens to occupy a cottage or room of his employer, with his master's goods in it, under section 10 they are liable to seizure and sale. In every prosecution under the Act the legal presumption of innocence until conviction is reversed; in every case the onus probandi, though in a Statute highly penal, is shifted from the informant on to the shoulders of the accused, and he a foreigner not knowing one word of the law, or even the language of the accuser. In other words, every Chinese is guilty until proved innocent—a provision which fills one conversant with subjects with alarm; for if such a law can be tolerated as against Chinese, the precedent is set, and in time of any popular outcry can easily be acted on for putting any other foreigners or even special classes among ourselves, as coloured people, or French, Italians, Americans, or Germans, under equally the same law. That certainly is interfering with aliens. 

The proposition that it is a Provincial tax for revenue purposes, supposing it to be so intended under the provisions of the Act, is so manifestly calculated to defeat that object, by diminishing the numbers of the members of the persons to be affected by it, that it is difficult to regard it in that light, or in any other light than an indirect mode of getting rid of persons whom it affects out of the country. The whole Act teems with special provisions which affect not only Chinese, but their employers, with obligations and liabilities as to the conduct of the Chinese in their employ, that no reasonable man would encounter, and run the risk of the penal consequences which the Act hangs over him. 

For instance, by section 19 any pecuniary penalty imposed may be summarily recovered (and applies to employers), and in default of immediate payment the same may be recovered by distress of the goods and chattels of the offender, and in default of sufficient distress by a liability to imprisonment for three calendar months, and the employers would necessarily be white men. 

In fact, the Act so bristles with these arbitrary, exceptional and penal consequences, that it is invidious to single out particular ones for comment. It is enough to add that "any person," no matter whether white or Chinese, imprisoned in respect of any infraction of the provisions of the Act, may be at the will of the executive, subjected even to hard labour. 

The Act is so full of provisions that interfere directly with aliens, with trade, and with commerce, that I have no hesitation in pronouncing all such provisions, and among them those under which the appellant in this case has been convicted, to be ultra vires the local legislature, and consequently illegal and void. 

So far, I have dealt with the Act on its own merits; but if we consider it in juxtaposition to the Dominion Act recently passed restricting the Chinese throughout all Canada, its illegality becomes transparent; for in passing that Act against the Chinese the Dominion has spoken by the highest authority which it possesses—its own Parliament. By the Constitutional Act the subject of aliens, we have seen, is specially reserved to the Dominion, and it is now an axiom, in the interpretation of that Act, that when that authority deals with a subject expressly included in its jurisdiction by the 91st section, it has possession of that subject exclusively, and the Province has to give way. It is a great assumption of power on the part of a Province to pass laws, the effect of which must be practically to expel a particular class of aliens from that Province, to say in effect that it will by its legislation impede or prevent that class from being employed in another Province—say the North-west Territory or Manitoba—where railway works may be languishing for want of that very class of labourers, British Columbia being the only sea-board of Canada on the Pacific through which (in face of the restrictive laws of the United States) that class of labourers can enter and pass through; that is, in fact, legislating on all inter-provincial immigration; in other words, such legislation is ultra vires, and so I pronounce it; and adjudge accordingly, and quash the conviction, with costs. 


Health regulations—Victoria Health By-Law, 1893, Secs. 32, 35—"Infected locality"—Proof of—"Exposed to infection."

Action of trespass against the Medical Health Officer of the City of Victoria for causing the plaintiff, one of a number of Chinamen, who landed at Victoria in a steamer last from Hong Kong in China, to be removed to the "Suspect Station" and there detained and subjected to cleansing process under colour of Sec. 35 of the Municipal Health By-Law, 1893, giving him, as Medical Health Officer, power "To stop, detain and examine every person or persons, freight, cargoes, railway and tramway cars coming from a place infected with a malignant or infectious disease," in order to prevent the introduction of such into Victoria.

The plaintiff had been passed by the Dominion Government Quarantine Officer as entitled to land at Victoria.

The white passengers from Hong Kong on the same steamer were not interfered with. The only evidence of Hong Kong being a place infected, etc., was that of a medical man resident in Victoria, who said "That in China small pox was endemic, because there inoculation was the universal practice. That there was danger of infection from white passengers, but not the same danger as from Chinamen." There was no direct evidence of the existence of small pox to a dangerous extent in Hong Kong at the time of the departure thence of the steamer, or that it was "a place infected," etc., or that the plaintiff had been "exposed to infection."

Held, That the facts were insufficient to justify the action of the Health Officer under the by-law.

Remarks on the duties of Health Officers.

Statement ACTION, claiming damages, for trespass. The facts fully appear from the head note and from the judgment.

H. Dallas Helmcken, for the plaintiff.

W. J. Taylor, for the defendant.

Judgment. CREASE, J.: This was a test action to try whether Chinamen have the same rights as other foreigners in landing here on their advent from China.

The occasion was the arrival of the Empress of China at the Outer Wharf, which is within the city limits of Victoria, on the 1st day of May, 1894, from China and Hongkong.

The action is one nominally rather than really, for damages against Dr. George Duncan, the Health Officer of the City of Victoria, on account of an alleged excess of duty in despatching en masse, without examination or enquiry, a number of Chinamen out to the suspect station at Ross Bay, there to be disinfected and scrubbed. No white passenger from the same port (Hongkong, the last port touched at) having been treated in a similar manner or apparently even questioned or detained. The Chinamen had already been examined on board the ship by the Dominion Quarantine Officers and Provincial officers and passed. Hoy Woon had also paid the $50 required by the Government as his entry fee into British Columbia, and was in possession of the proper receipt.

Dr. Duncan then appears on the scene, and finds these men already passed and landed clear of ship, Dominion Judgment customs and entrance.

Disregarding the white men, who had come at the same time from the same place and in the same ship and presumably subject to some of the same unsanitary influences, though not to the same extent as the Chinese, without any reason for special suspicion, without inspecting or attempting to inspect a single man, (that had already been done individually by the Dominion Quarantine Officers) he orders them into the custody of his constables to be taken out to the suspect station at Ross Bay, there to be washed and disinfected and scrubbed. They, with their goods and chattels, were bundled into a common truck like so many cattle.

The plaintiff and other Chinamen similarly situated obtained a writ of Habeas Corpus, upon which they were discharged from this custody.

Thereupon the present action was brought to test if and how far Chinamen are to be treated, when they land on our shores, differently from other foreigners.

The grounds alleged by the Health Officer for this arbitrary treatment is “that China is an infected locality,” and all persons coming from China and especially in this instance Hongkong, and especially also the natives of China, come from an infected locality, and that he has that authority under the Health By-Law, 1893, which was passed at the time of the small pox panic in Victoria, and, in all he did, was simply doing his duty.

Section 32 of that by-law (published in the B.C. Gazette of April 20, 1893) directs a strict examination to be made of any vessel and persons coming from “an infected locality,” before any person, luggage or freight or other thing is allowed to be landed from it.

Section 35 of the Health By-Law of 1893 gives the Medical Health Officer power to stop, detain and examine every person or persons, freight, cargoes, railway and tramway cars coming from a place “infected with a malignant Judgment. pestilential or infectious disease,” in order to prevent the introduction of the same into Victoria.

The case was tried before a jury upon the issue whether Hongkong, the last port the steamer left in China, was or not “an infected locality.” To prove that Hongkong was such, Dr. Davie was placed in the witness box as an expert. He considered “China the home of small pox,” and that it was “an infected place”; that, in China, small pox was “endemic,” i.e., always there; because there “inoculation” was the universal practice and was a constant source of danger; that in England and Europe and America, generally, vaccination, of late years, has been the rule. That was a preventative, and persons from such places were naturally not so much the object of suspicion or inspection to a health officer. He thought that too close a scrutiny could not be made of Chinese passengers. That small pox must have been in China on the 19th April last, the date when the Empress left Hongkong, as it was always there. He had no opinion to express as to the British possession of Hongkong; but it was a portion of China, where small pox was always, in a sense, "endemic." There was danger of infection from white passengers, but not the same danger as from Chinamen. It was his opinion that every one should be examined who comes from China or from any "infected port."

They should be examined on the ship. When asked the question, "Would you allow Chinamen to land and go into the city?" the Doctor replied, "The whole of the baggage should be disinfected, on the steamer if possible—if not, on the Outer Wharf. If I could not do anything else I would take them out to the suspect station. I would, if I could," he continued, "examine every passenger from there at the Outer Wharf. To do this it requires certain facilities which are wanting at the Outer Wharf." The duty of the Health Officer, as Dr. Davie understood it, was to interview the ship's officers and ascertain the sanitary state of the ship during the voyage; to inspect the whole of the men, inspect every individual, before he left the vessel. He was of Judgment opinion that the whole of those landed should be disinfected. The Chinese are chiefly dressed in woollen materials and these harbour infection for weeks and months. The period of incubation of small pox was from twelve to fifteen days. Cases of small pox were found in all large seaport towns, as for instance Liverpool; but these were not "endemic."

If the vessel left Honkong, it was quite possible some cases might develop during the passage. If they were not examined on the steamer there were no facilities for doing so on the wharf. There were several other diseases to be guarded against from China, e.g., cholera, leprosy, etc. (Here I observe that from first to last no mention was made of the black plague, which has carried off so many thousands of Chinese in Hongkong; and it appeared that during the passage from China to Victoria, which presumably lasted over the ordinary period of inoculation, no case of small pox appeared on board the Empress, and that she showed a clean bill of health.)

1894. Upon the question whether or not Hongkong, at the time the steamer left on April 19, 1894, was or not "an infected port," in the sense of Sec. 35, a place "infected by a malignant, pestilential or infectious disease," and they were so charged. The jury returned the following verdict:—

"According to the evidence we find that on 1st May, 1894, Hongkong was an infected port. We speak according to the evidence of Dr. Davie, that the port of Hongkong was and is an infected port." Now this assumes, as Dr. Davie assumed, that Hongkong, although a British port and subject to quarantine regulations, was (which includes the time of the steamer's departure) and is a cradle of small pox, and that every ship coming thence to Victoria, especially with Chinese on board, should be subject to the most searching examination, and the drastic treatment I have described. He does not include Japanese in the same category as Chinese. It was apparent throughout the Judgment. Doctor's evidence that he regarded the whole subject exclusively from a medical point of view, which is by no means identical with the legal construction which must prevail. The law, while it imposes on the Medical Health Officer the duty and arms him with abundant authority to deal imperatively almost in every case, at the same time insists that he shall discharge that duty with judgment and discretion, and not overrun the mark.

In this case, to say the least, he has not discharged his duty discreetly, but, on the contrary, has exceeded it. The whole gist of the by-law is to guard the case of persons "infected or exposed to infection," words which have a definite legal meaning, which applies to persons who have been brought into actual contact with or within the baleful influence of an infectious or contagious disease, as travelling in the same carriage or boat with anyone affected by the disease, and not securely isolated from accidental or other contact, or has recently come from a locality where from an accumulation of cases or other reason the disease has got into the air and become epidemic.

This construction applies to Sections 12, 13, 15, 16 and 29 of the by-law by the wording of which this meaning is distinctly brought out.

His duty was, if he considered the Empress of China came from "an infected locality," at once to go on board the suspected vessel and make his examination and inspection on board the vessel (as Section 32 says), "before any luggage, freight or other thing is landed or allowed to be landed."

It goes further and shews that the only person to be "dealt with in such manner as the Medical Health City Officer shall direct" is "any infected or exposed person from on board," under none of which categories do the plaintiff or other Chinamen, seized and carted off on this occasion, happen to come.

There was not an atom of actual proof before the jury of Judgment. the actual existence of a single case of small pox in Hong-kong in April or May or since, beyond a medical opinion that there might be.

Now a medical opinion, however valuable as an opinion, is not the legal proof of a fact. It would be a painful surprise to the people of Hongkong and its business men, living under British rule, to learn that, on the strength only of the opinion of a learned expert, their place is given out to the world as an infected place, which the by-law interprets to mean a place "infected with a malignant, pestilential or infectious disease," without any actual proof of the fact. In this case the plaintiff had been already duly and personally examined by Dr. McNaughton Jones, the able and experienced Health Officer, on his arrival, and passed. He had also been examined and passed by the Customs House officers as a man who had paid all his customs dues and had a certificate to shew the fact, which left him free to come and go as he pleased. It is not shewn that Dr.Duncan went on board, or that he conferred with the Dominion Health Officers as to whether any further examination of the plaintiff was necessary, or, in the public interest, advisable. It is shewn that he did not personally examine a single Chinaman or inquire if he was “an infected or exposed person.” In a matter affecting the public health, it is quite natural, and everyone would expect that officers who are armed with extensive sanitary powers, should confer together and assist one another in carrying out the law, and work well together for the public good and safety. Where that is not done the public are quick to note and comment on the fact.

The by-law is very properly arbitrary in its provisions and the powers it confers in cases of emergency, or even actual suspicion, on the Health Officer and his subordinates and these should be supported wherever practicable and the occasion warrants their employment.

But it should be understood that these exceptional powers are a great trust placed in the hands of the Health Officer to meet such cases as I have described, and at all times to be administered with firmness, judgment and discretion—not under any fear of infection unwarranted by the facts of the case which may enter into the mind of the Health Officer, or to be carried out by carting off en masse to the suspect station all who hail from China or Hongkong without examination or enquiry. The evidence shews there was nothing like emergency in the present case or anything to warrant the treatment they received.

On a review of the facts I am of opinion that the defendant exceeded his authority and caused the plaintiff great unnecessary loss and annoyance. I therefore give judgment for plaintiff against the defendant, but, as it is a test case, with only $5 damages and costs to be taxed.

Judgment for plaintiff.
