On the 4th of July, 1884, the following Commission was issued :-

CANADA.

LANSDOWNE.

VICTORIA, by the Grace of God of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Queen, Defender of the Faith, etc., etc., etc.

To all to whom these presents shall come or whom the same may in any wise concern .

GREETING :- Whereas, during the last session of the Parliament of Canada, a motion was made as follows : "That in the opinion of this House it is expedient to enact a law prohibiting the Incoming of Chinese to that portion of Canada known as British Columbia," which motion was withdrawn on a promise made by the Right Honorable the Premier on behalf of the Government that a Commission should be issued to enquire into and report upon the whole subject of Chinese Immigration ;

AND WHEREAS We deem it expedient in the interest of, and as connected with, the good government of Canada to cause such enquiry to be made ;

NOW, KNOW YE that We, by and with the advice of our Privy Council for Canada, do by these presents nominate, constitute and appoint the Honorable Joseph Adolphe Chapleau, Doctor of Laws, one of our counsel learned in the law, and our Secretary of State of Canada ; and the Honorable John Hamilton Gray, Doctor of Civil Law, a Judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia, Commissioners to make enquiry into and concerning all the facts and matters connected with the whole subject of Chinese Immigration, its trade relations, as well as the social and moral objections taken to the influx of the Chinese people into Canada.

AND WE DO hereby, under the authority of an Act of the Parliament of Canada, passed in the thirty-first year of our reign, chaptered thirty-eight and intituled "An Act Respecting Inquiries Concerning Public Matters," confer upon the said Commissioners the power of summoning before them any party or witnesses, and of requiring them to give evidence on oath, orally or in writing (or on solemn affirmation, if they be parties entitled to affirm in civil matters), and to produce such documents and things as such Commissioners deem requisite to the full investigation of the matters into which they are appointed to examine.

AND WE DO order and direct that the said Commissioners report to our Privy Council for Canada from time to time, or in one report, as they may think fit, the result of their enquiry.

IN TESTIMONY WHEREOF, We have caused these our Letters to be made Patent and the Great Seal of Canada to be hereunto affixed :

WITNESS, our right trusty and entirely beloved cousin, the Most Honorable Sir Henry Charles Keith Petty-Fitzmaurice, Marquis of Lansdowne, in the County of Somerset, Earl of Wycombe, of Chipping Wycombe, in the County of Bucks, Viscount Calne and Caln- stone, in the County of Wilts, and Lord Wycombe, Baron of Chipping Wycombe, in the County of Bucks, in the Peerage of Great Britain, Earl of Kerry and Earl of Shelburne, Viscount Clanmaurice and Fitzmaurice, Baron of Kerry, Lixnaw and Dunkerron, in the Peerage of Ireland, Knight Grand Cross of our most distinguished Order of St. Michael and St. George, Governor-General of Canada and Vice-Admiral of the same.

At our Government House, in our city of Ottawa, this fourth day of July, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and eighty-four, and in the forty-eighth year of our reign.

By command,

G. POWELL,

Under Secretary of State.

1

OF THE

CHINESE IMMIGRATION

ROYAL COMMISSION.

To His Excellency the Governor-General in Council:

'We, the undersigned, having been appointed by a Royal Commission dated the 5th July, 1884, to make enquiry into and concerning all the facts and matters connected with the whole subject of Chinese immigra- tion, its trade relations as well as the social and moral objections taken to the influx of the Chinese people into Canada, and to report to the Privy Council for Canada, from time to time, or in one report, the result of our enquiry, have the honor to report as follows :-

On the 9th of August we met at Victoria, B.C., when the Secretary submitted all papers received and evidence taken at San Francisco. Commissioner Gray approved of the proceedings at San Francisco, and it was agreed the same should form part of the work of the Commission.

PRELIMINARY.

The first sitting for the reception of evidence was held on the 12th of First sitting to August, after due notice had been given in the newspapers. hear evidence.

The public was then admitted to the place of hearing. Ample arrange- ments had been made for the accommodation of the press. Proceedings were commenced by the Secretary reading the Commission, after which the Chairman said :

" British Columbia has repeatedly by her Legislature, as well as by her The Chairman representatives in Parliament, solicited the Executive and Parliament stances out of of Canada to enact a law prohibiting the incoming of Chinese to sion arose. British Columbia. Nothing was done in that direction until last session of Parliament, when Sir John Macdonald, speaking in answer to a motion asking Parliament to enact a law in the above sense, pledged his Government to issue a Commission to look into the whole subject during the approaching session, and to consider exhaustively its trade relations, its social relations, and all those moral considerations which it is alleged make Chinese immigration undesirable, with the view, as he

Extent of the enquiry.

First meeting in Victoria.

states the circum-

which Commis-

PRELIMINARY.

stated, of putting the Government and Parliament in a better position to. deal with the subject. It will also be a part of the duties of the Com- mission to examine the evidence submitted in Australia, California and Washington, and to condense and collate it and to submit it with its report to Parliament, so that the Parliament of Canada may have, in a convenient shape, together with the researches of the Commissioners, all the information which the legislative bodies of the United States and Australia had when they undertook the work of legislating on this ques- tion. This proposition of the Government met with the unanimous consent of Parliament. The Commission has been named in fulfilment of that pledge. The scope of its functions is co-extensive with that of the pledge of the Premier. It has made researches in Washington, and is in possession of the evidence and papers submitted to Congress. I visited San Francisco and have carefully examined the differnt points submitted to the Commis- sion by the light of what is to be seen there, and have taken the evidence of those who should be well informed. The Commission is now opened here for the purposes indicated in the Order in Council, which has been read, appointing it. The Commissioners wish for the fullest information on all matters submitted to them, viz :-

"(1.) The advisability of passing a law to prohibit the incoming of Chinese into British Columbia or Canada.

" (2.) The advisability of restricting the numbers coming in or of regu- lating it, and the best manner of effectually carrying out such object.

"(3.) The social and trade relations between the people of British Columbia and Canada generally with the Chinese, both now and in view of the anticipated early completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway, as well as the effective completion of the other public works about to be undertaken.

" (4.) The moral considerations which arise out of the residence and contact of the white people with Chinese here and elsewhere.

" The Commissioners have already, by letters, invited the Executive Council of the Province and the Municipal Council of this City, and other representative officials, to give them whatever information is within their control on this important subject.

" I have only to add that it is the intention of the Government to bring in legislation next session and I venture to express the hope that all classes of persons, those favorable to Chinese immigration as well as those opposed to it, will place before the Commission any facts or observa- tions which will throw light upon the subjects with which the Commission has to deal.

" We now invite all those who, by their representative character, have a right to speak in the name of the people of the Province or in the name of the Municipal Council, to aid in this investigation. We also invite those who are connected with boards of trade, or who are engaged in large manufacturing, mining or other industrial enterprises, to put their views

PRELIMINARY.

and any facts within their knowledge before the Commission. We further invite those who are engaged in the pursuit of agriculture or stock-raising to give us such information as will enable us to judge of the question as it affects their interest; and finally any information upon the moral questions from all sources will be received and considered by the Commission. The Commissioners propose to visit as many of the leading sections of the province as the limited time at their disposal will permit, and will be happy to receive a visit from any persons wishing to speak with them on the subject.

" The Commissioners wish especially for facts, and invite all who feel dis- Facts specially posed to put their views or give any statistical information on paper to desired. hand it into the Secretary of the Commission."

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : "I have very little to add to the remarks made by my brother Commissioner, the Hon. Mr. Chapleau.

"I think it is very important in British Columbia, deeply interested as Necessity of the we are in this question, that the people should remember that many mem- enquiry. bers of the Dominion Parliament have had no information on the subject ; and that it is essential they should be informed in a shape and way that would justify them in passing a prohibitive or restrictive Act. They will have also to be put in possession of proof that would justify them before their constituents, in the event of their supporting a restrictive measure against the Chinese.

"The object of the Commission is to obtain proof that the principle of re- stricting Chinese immigration is proper and in the interests of the Province and the Dominion. Evidence on both sides is required to arrive at a just decision ; this is what the Dominion Government seeks in the present case, and it ought not to be thought unreasonable in British Columbia that a Commission should be appointed to collect such information as would lead to a right conclusion.

"Sitting as a Commissioner I have to hear the evidence on both sides, and fairly report it to Ottawa, feeling assured that the people of the Pro- vince will give the Commission every opportunity to obtain evidence bearing on the subject."

We then proceeded to call witnesses in British Columbia.

During the investigation in British Columbia, San Francisco and else- Witnesses. where, thirty-one witnesses were examined viva voce, and thirty-nine by sending out printed questions, which are set out in the Minutes of Evi- dence. Many to whom these were sent did not reply, but among those who did will be found persons of all classes.

Statements in writing were received from those who preferred thus to statements in record their testimony. writing.

An elaborate enquiry was made by a Joint Committee of the Senate The great enquiry and House of Representatives of the United States in 1876. An effort of 1876. was made to procure copies of this mine of information on the subject, for the use of Parliament, but as will be seen by Appendix [O] without

Object of the Commission ..

PRELIMINARY.

success. The evidence as printed extended over some twelve hundred pages. This has been condensed. Counsel or managers appeared before the Joint Committee and the witnesses were examined and cross- examined. To have noted the transitions from direct examination to cross-examination would have greatly lengthened without adding to the value of the condensation, in making which the aim has been to give, as much as practicable, in the words of the witnesses, and in a com- paratively few pages the result of long examinations.

In addition to the evidence we have described we have availed ourselves of much that is documentary. Any documents which we deemed of suffi- cient importance will be found either set out in the report or in the Appendix. We have further read all the literature bearing on Chinese immigration, and the issues raised in connection therewith, which the Library of Parliament and the most diligent search elsewhere placed within our reach.

As the California Reports are not found in the Library for recent years we print in the Appendix a judgment of the Honorable Judge Hoffman, bearing on the interpretation of the Act of 1882, and for a similar reason we produce the Act of 1884, amending that of 1882.

In British Columbia, in San Francisco and in Portland, the Commis- sioners investigated for themselves the Chinese question as presented in each locality ; discussed the problem with leading men of all classes, some of whom, while expressing themselves freely in conversation, did not wish to put their opinions on record ; others, for different reasons, could not be examined ; and the Commissioners came to the consideration of this question, not only furnished with the information derived from the evidence given, but with the advantage of having discussed it with judges, merchants, statesmen, mechanics and laborers, amongst the whites, and with Chinese officials. In British Columbia we visited Victoria, Nan- aimo, New Westminster and Yale.

A brief account of what was seen among the Chinese in San Francisco, Victoria and Portland will be found in the Appendix [D, E and P]. His Excellency the Consul General of China paid a visit to the Commis- sion at the Palace Hotel. After courtesies were interchanged, he en- quired particularly respecting the Commission, and the veto powers of the Dominion and Imperial Parliaments. The Consul General expressed a hope that the enquiry would be impartial, and he was assured it would be.

In taking evidence on large questions and printing it as given, the same subjects will again and again recur, but as seen by different minds. The mastery of the whole is greatly facilitated by marginal notes, and accordingly marginal notes have been made.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

CHINESE IMMIGRATION ELSEWHERE THAN IN CANADA.

We were directed by our Commission to enquire into all facts and Extent of matters connected with the whole subject of Chinese immigration. We enquiry. have accordingly made ourselves-as far as possible through books- acquainted with it as it has existed in various countries.

Happily there was an opportunity of studying it on the spot in that An opportunity of State where it has appeared on the largest scale and under circumstances tion in the light studying the ques- analogous to those existing in British Columbia. And not only so. In of the past, the present and the future. the State in question there had been as a consequence of agitation a great inquest on the subject nearly eight years ago. That had been followed by still more violent agitation. The Federal Legislature had passed two successive Acts dealing with it. One of these Acts came into operation in 1882. The other was passed at the last session of Congress. In California for some time there had been railway communication with the Eastern States, and one of the great difficulties in the way of procuring white labor had been removed. Here was an opportunity of studying the question in British Columbia in the light of the present, the past and the future-for the present of California may prove the likeness of the future of British Columbia; of studying it, as we have said, on the spot ; of testing the depositions of 1876 by the experience of eight years ; of talk- ing with and examining leading men who had, on one side or the other, taken part in the agitation ; of enquiring into the effects and effectiveness of the several Acts, and of seeing, so far as the opinion of the deliberate and passionate advocacy of others were concerned, what had been the influence of those tests of truth-sober second thought and time.

Accordingly in July one of your Commissioners and the Secretary pro- ceeded to San Francisco.

THE ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

On arriving at San Francisco we at once put ourselves in communica- tion with leading men and persons who had in a sense made a special study of the question. A few who could speak with peculiar authority San Francisco witnesses des- cribed. were asked to give their evidence. They readily complied and, save in two cases, a short-hand writer took down verbatim what they deposed. One of these exceptions was Mr. Babcock, a leading merchant, a man of great wealth, and an employer of Chinese labor. Mr. Babcock could not fail to impress anyone with whom he might be brought in con- tact as being a man of great independence of character and scrupulous honor. His evidence was summarized, the summary submitted to him, See M. E., p. 13.

PROGRESS OF QUESTION IN CALIFORNIA.

and he endorsed it. The President of the Immigration Association of California, a man who had taken part in the agitation, and who was at the moment actively engaged in bringing in white immigrants, was a most valuable witness. On the subject of the relative criminality of Chinese, the Chief of Police, a detective, and a Police Magistrate were examined. In regard to charges of personation a late collector of customs was seen. The Chinese side of the question was given by His Excellency the Consul General for China at the port of San Francisco, and by Colonel Bee, the Consul, while on the general question, Mr. Walcott Brooks, an Asiatic scholar and traveller, of high repute in San Francisco, was heard.

Progress of the Chinese question in California. A glance at what may be called the progress of the Chinese question in California will be useful. At first the Chinamen were welcomed. In See p. 339, Ap. A. 1852, said a witness before the Joint Committee, they marched in our fourth of July processions ; in 1862, they dared not show themselves ; in 1872, had they dared to appear on the scene, they would have been. stoned. The Joint Committee mentioned above met at San Francisco to report to Congress on the character, extent, and effect of Chinese immigra- tion. They met at the Palace Hotel in October, 1876, and a very full enquiry took place.

One feature of the early stage of the enquiry is worth noting. On a point which was capable of being settled to a demonstration, the vaguest ideas, even in the case of eminent men, prevailed. We allude to the number of the Chinese population in California. One put it down at. 116,000 ; another at 150,000, and another at 250,000. Not dissimilar were the estimates formed of the number of Chinese in British Columbia .. One contractor told us there were 3,000 in Victoria.

Now, there were two independent sources of information which yet, when compared, tallied and thus tested each other. The census showed that in 1870 the Chinese population of the whole of the United States was 63,199. Of course, there may have been an enormous. increase in six years. That increase was, however, known. From the records of the Custom House, a tabular statement had been made of the arrivals and departures of Chinese from 1860 to 1876. According to that statement the excess of arrivals over departures, from 1870 to 1876, was 54,595. This, provided none had died, would give 117,794. If we esti- mate the annual death rate at two per cent. on an average population of 90,000, this would give 12,600 for seven years, and 12,600 subtracted from 117,794 leave the result of 105,194. The tabular statement between 1870 and 1876 is capable of being tested. If that statement for the years. from 1860 to 1869 inclusive is compared with the census for the period, we find a substantial agreement. If the tabular statement was right for these years, it was likely to be right for the years from 1870 to 1876. No. one, indeed, disputed the correctness of the figures for these years.

This 105,194 has to be spread over the United States. The bulk of the Chinese population is on the Pacific Coast; but not nearly all .. In 1870, according to the census. California had 49.277 : Nevado 2 150

POPULAR FEELING.

Oregon, 3,330 ; Idaho, 4,274 ; Montana, 1,949 ; the fraction remaining being distributed among the other States. Did the same proportion hold in 1876, the number in California might be about 80,000. How accurate is this reasoning will be seen by the number of Chinese in the whole of the United States in 1880, according to the census of that year, viz. : 105,465 ; in California, 75,132.

Yet language of panic was held respecting the immense number of these Unreasonable people. This language was heard in the halls of the enquiry. The mora] of this as it strikes us is that this question can be discussed with calm- bers of Chinese. ness and dignity, and certainly without that excitement which is born of the fears of a rising deluge.

Some 75,000 Chinese in a State, not then counting a million inhabitants, may have been a danger, may have menaced the interests of trade and labor, and in city and county may have had a degrading and demoralizing influence. But if so, the proper way is to lay the finger on the sore place, and not rave about imaginery facts nor assail with wild assertions and question ; get at irrational vituperation, a whole class which like other classes contains good facts. and bad.

Perhaps, however, a deep insight may discover a kind of justification for a sentiment which had the complexion of terror. Looking at the history of countries where two races have existed side by side in any ratio A great que of proportion as to numbers, are there possibilities in Chinese immigration to explain this panic-like state of mind, by a reference to an instinctive appreciation of a real and momentous issue unconsciously veiled under violent accusation and trivial controversies ? The people sometimes, as it were, scent danger in men or measures or movements, without being able to analyse the source of their alarm. They conceive violent aver- sions or apprehensions, or both, and their causal faculty leads them to cast about for reasons for their sensations to satisfy themselves and others, and these reasons generally partake more of the character of invective than of logical deduction. This is a question which will naturally come up hereafter.

It is a serious step to take, to exclude any law-abiding workers from A serious step to your country as a field to win a living in or even to hamper their ingress ing workers. save on sanitary grounds ; it may be quite right, however, to adopt one or But there may be other course ; there may be good reasons for doing so. But in the interest of what is expedient as well as just, these are the reasons to be found out and produced, and not rest what should be a grave act of statesmanship, and what might prove a wise and far seeing course, on indiscriminate abuse.

It is not improper to say that the Chinese have no votes, that they do not speak the English tongue, that they do not belong to a nation play. which, when her subjects are insulted or damnified, can hold high lan- guage, and the commonest sentiments of manliness, not to speak of chivalry, suggest the reserve of expression which the weak may claim from the strong.

Chinese popula- tion of the U. S. and of California in 1880.

excitement con- sequent on a false idea of the num-

The proper way to discuss a public

exclude law-abid - good reasons and these should be stated.

A plea for fair

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

Mistaken violence.

The very violence with which the Chinese are assailed creates in many minds a prejudice in their favor and in any case is unworthy of civilized men. To say of men the bulk of whom are marvels of frugality, industry, and-save for the use of opium-temperance, that they are all thieves and scoundrels defeats itself.

Chinese judged by an unfair standard. The truth is the Chinese are judged by an ideal standard. They do not get the benefit of the doctrine of averages. They are not measured by that charitable rule which justice no less than humanity leads us to apply to all other men. If one Chinaman steals, it is concluded that all are thieves. If a man of this temper were to read the tragedy of Tchao Chi Con Ell he would at once cry out : " What a depraved people these Chinese are ! Here is one of their most popular plays founded on treason and murder by a great minister, who puts his master to death, kills all the royal family except the daughter of the King, and afterwards determines Sweeping generalizations. on the death of her child, born subsequently to the massacre in which her husband perished." He would work himself up into a state of great indignation, and give vent to sweeping ethnological propositions, forget- ing the plot of Hamlet, of Macbeth, of Richard III, and oblivious of the daily revelations of the newspapers. Not merely are they judged by an Thingsinnocentin unfair standard and painted blacker than they are, things innocent in themselves, because different from what we are used to, are in the true spirit of barbarism, treated as badges of degradation. A Chinaman shaves the front part of his head and wears a queue. He cuts his clothes somewhat differently from western peoples. His boots are made on a different plan from ours. To that tyrannical and narrow judgment ever found confident and aggressive where ignorance is supreme, the pig-tail, the shaving the front part of the head, the blowse and shoes, are all so many marks of inferiority. Yet the laborers of one of the most civilized of nations wear the blowse ; and as to shaving the front part of the head, shaving the chin might, from an absolute stand-point, appear as ridiculous, while amongst ourselves, in these days of overstrained nervous energy, nature frequently imposes a denuded front, and goes even farther still, without the aid of a scissors ; nor is it so long ago since queues were seen in the drawing rooms of St. James and Versailles.

themselves re- garded as serious objections if not crimes.

There may be a strong case for Government in- terference.

But though a man's logic is weak what he advocates may be sound, and when you have covered some or all of his arguments with ridicule and discomfiture it does not follow his cause lies prostrate with himself. That the Chinese immigration is a bachelor immigration ; that the China- man can live in a space and on food wholly inadequate for a white laborer ; that they are independent of and indifferent to all the comforts of life as they are understood in white communities ; these, which are admitted facts, may be serious not merely for the laborer but for the nation, and it is our duty to probe the facts to the bottom. Senator Jones, of Nevada, tells of a miner who put it this way to him :

A Nevada miner's view of the case.

" It is immaterial to you, as far as your own position is concerned, who the workmen may be that are under your control ; but to us it makes a

XV

vast difference. I work a thousand feet under ground. I go every morning and take my lantern a thousand feet from the cheery light of day, and work hard all day for four dollars. On that hill-side there is a little cot- tage in which my wife and four children live. The forces of our civilization have, in the struggle for an adequate remuneration to labor, given me enough to support that wife and those children in the decency and comfort in which you see them now. I have separate rooms in which the children may sleep ; my wife must be clothed so that she does not feel ashamed in mixing with her neighbors ; the children must be clothed as befits decency and order and the grade of civilization in which we live, and we must have a variety of food to which we have been accustomed and a taste for which we have inherited from our ancestors.

"While my work is very arduous I go to it with a light heart and perform it cheerfully, because it enables me to support my wife and my children. I am in hopes to bring up my daughters to be good wives and faithful mothers, and to offer my sons better opportunities in life than I had myself. I cheerfully contribute to the support of schools, churches, charitable institutions, and other objects that enter into our daily life ; but after I have maintained my family and performed these duties not much is left of my wages when the week is ended.

" How is it with the Chinaman? The Chinaman can do as much work No wife, no underground as I can. He has no wife and family. He performs none of family. these duties. Forty or fifty of his kind can live in a house no larger than mine. He craves no variety of food. He has inherited no taste for comfort or for social enjoyment. Conditions that satisfy him and make him contented would make my life not worth living. * * *

" You have got some thousands of workmen here in exactly the same The Christian position I am. When these are driven out, what will be the situation ? way to Chinese You have a society now that is governed by patriotic instincts ; a society hovels. that maintains civil government ; maintains schools and churches, and all the institutions of civilization ; all around you are the houses of American workmen whom you know, whose language you understand, whose tradi- tions, hopes and fears are common to our race, whose gods are your gods, and whose affections are your affections. What will you have in their place ? Instead of them you will have Chinese hovels, Chinese huts everywhere ; and, instead of an American civilization, you will have got a Chinese civilization, with all its degrading accessories, precisely as you might find it in China. Around you would be a population of Chinese, with Chinese tastes, Chinese language, and Chinese customs.

"By the genius of our people, and by the aid of the machinery which we have invented, it has been made possible for the American workman to have a certain share of the products of industry which is much larger than in any other country. Without contributing anything toward this Chinaman comes the Chinaman comes in, taking advantage of our skill and of our toil and in and takes advantage of con- of our struggles, and drives us from the fields of industry which we have ditions created by created and which our race alone could create." others.

This language is clearly not the language actually used by any miner. But it none the less expresses the miner's sentiments. We have heard such sentiments, and Senator Jones here condenses many a harangue from his white workmen.

Nor is it, from their point of view, an unfair way of putting the case, while if there is danger anywhere of such a change in the character of a population, small or large, who would say it is a thing of which a statesman is not bound to take note ?

village must give

·

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

Although the time it was possible to remain in San Francisco was short, a very searching and it is hoped a complete examination of this question was made. The enquiry of the Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States, already alluded to, had been carefully studied, as had been much other literature, Eight years had elapsed since that enquiry had taken place. It was important to know whether the gentlemen who then testified still adhered to their testimony. Meanwhile, as will be more particularly referred to later on, the Treaty relations between the United States and China had been modified. The date of the new Treaty, is November 17th, 1880; of its ratification, July 18th, 1881. An Act roughly described in the newspapers as "the Exclusion Act," but which might more accurately be described as the Chinese Laborers Exclusion Act, was passed May 6th, 1882. More than three years and a half, therefore, had gone by since the first decided step towards exclusion was taken, and more than two years since a most stringent exclusion Act, so far as laborers were concerned, was placed on the statute book. An amendment Act-which is reproduced in the Appendix (F)-was just coming into operation.

Here it should seem were conditions more than usually favorable for judging, in the light of experience, the whole question, as it presents itself in Canada.

There was still a good deal of feeling on the subject of Chinese. immigration.

We were in a new country, a State as large as France, a State which had no existence thirty years ago, a country, moreover, of peculiar climate and peculiar geographical features, and we first directed our enquiry to the influence of Chinese immigration on

THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE COUNTRY.

California, like British Columbia, without a railway must have, so far as direct communication was concerned, remained isolated from the life and commerce of the greater portion of the continent. Between her and all that is meant by " western civilization, " rose two immense chains of mountains. More than this there are vast tracts of but partially settled land between the mountains and the Missouri.

Such enterprising spirits as the Forty-Niners could not but early con- ceive the idea of overcoming what might well have seemed the impass- able barriers of the Sierra Nevada. In the absence of a railway the State could not grow, could not be developed, could receive no immigra- tion, except in units. The practised eye discerned at a glance the wealth of her soil, her mineral wealth-but what were these if there were no laborers ? She must have a transcontinental line and, again like British Columbia in this, her development could not be secured by a trans- continental line alone. She must have local railways. Transportation from one part of the State to the other could only be made easy for

RAILWAY BUILDING.

commerce and travel by these. As it were to illustrate the apothegm that the time produces the man-the Chinaman who had come to California as to "the land of gold," presents himself as a laborer. As we have seen, he was welcomed. Friend and foe bear witness to his faithfulness and his patient industry.

Mr. Low, a former Governor of the State and minister to China, whose Chinese labor evidence is summarized in this volume, said that "up to the present Chinese advantage. labor had been of great advantage to the State, looking at it in dollars and See p. 183. Ap. A. .cents. By reason of our isolation, the laboring classes of the Eastern States and of Europe could not get here." He goes on to testify that "on the Central Pacific Railroad four-fifths of the labor for the grading was performed by the Chinese." He adds, that in the work of reclaiming swamp lands-the tule-lands as they are called-much the larger portion was done by Chinese, "for two reasons: first, the labor is cheaper; and, secondly, it is an unhealthy sort of work, because it is in malarious districts, and the Chinese seem to be constituted something like the negro ; they are not affected by malaria as Anglo-Saxons are." The witness then makes a statement to the effect, that he was one of the Commissioners when the Pacific Railway was in course of construction on the western side of the Sierra. He was on the road when they introduced Chinese labor. "" They first started with white and they came to a stand-still. They could not get enough to prosecute the work." They were then offering $45 a month and board for white labor. Things came to a stand- still. The foreman unwillingly consented to take enough Chinamen to fill the dump-carts and hold the drills, while white men held the horses and struck the drills. In less than six months they had Chinese doing every- In less than six thing, and the foreman said that, taken together, the Chinese did eighty per Chinese doing months they had cent. as much as the whites, while the wages of the former were $31 a everything. month and they boarded themselves. To the white laborers they gave $45 a month and board.

had been of great

On Central Pacific 4/5 of labor per- formed by Chinese.

First started with white labor and they came to a stand-still.

Mr. Crocker, one of the five proprietors of the Central Pacific Railroad, said, they went on for a year and a half with white labor. They adver- Advertised but tised thoroughly but could not get more than 800 men. They got Chi- nese and found them good all round ; " and to-day if I had a big job of work that I wanted to get through quickly, and had a limited time to do it in, I should take Chinese labor to do it with, because of its great relia- bility, steadiness and aptitude and capacity for hard labor." He goes on to say that their powers of endurance are equal to those of the best white men, and that they proved themselves equal to the best Cornish miners in using the drill. His evidence is so striking we give an extract from the original report :

could not get mor than 800 white men.

See p. 313, Ap. A.

"Q. How long have you been in the State ?- A. I have been here twenty-six years.

"Q. What has been your business ?- A. For the last fifteen or sixteen years I have been building railroads.

" Q. Did you commence the construction of the Central Pacific with white or Chinese labor ?- A. We commenced with white labor.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

"Q. How long did you continue it ?- A. We never discontinued it ; we have always employed white labor.

"Q. I mean how long did you continue with that kind of labor exten- at first prejudiced sively ?- A. We continued about a year and a half, when we found we against Chinese. could not get sufficient labor to progress with the road as fast as was necessary, and felt driven to the experiment of trying Chinese labor. I believe that all our people were prejudiced against Chinese labor, and that there was a disposition not to employ them.

"Q. You mean that the railroad people were prejudiced ?- A. Yes, sir ; especially Mr. Strobridge and myself, who had charge of the con- struction, more particularly. I had charge of the construction, and Mr. Strobridge was under me as superintendent. He thought that the Chi- nese would not answer, considering what they eat, and other things, and from what he had seen of them ; he did not think they were fit laborers ;. he did not think they would build a railroad. We advertised very thoroughly, and sent circulars to every post office in the State, inviting white labor, and offering large prices for that class of labor, but we failed to get over 800 men. Our force never went much above 800 white laborers, with the shovel and pick, and after pay day it would run down to 600 or 700 ; then before the next pay day it would get up to 800 men again, but we could not increase beyond that amount. Then we were compelled to try Chinese labor, and we tried them on the light work, thinking they would not do for heavy work. Gradually we found that they worked well there, and as our forces spread out and we began to occupy more ground, and felt more in a hurry, we put them into the softer cuts and finally into the rock cuts. Wherever we put them we found them good, and they worked themselves into our favor to such an extent that if we found we were in a hurry for a job of work it was better to put on Chinese at once. Previous to that we had always put on white men ; and to-day, if I had a big job of work that I wanted to get through quickly, and had a limited time to do it in, I should take Chinese labor to do it with, because of its greater reliability and steadiness, and their aptitude and capacity for hard work.

This is surprising enough ; but what follows is even more astonishing. Yet that the small-boned and unmuscular Chinamen held their own against the best miners in the world, if they did not beat them, is. established by two or three unimpeachable witnesses.

"Q. What are their powers of endurance ?- A. They are equal to the best white men. We tested that in the summit tunnel, which is in the very hardest granite. We had a shaft down in the centre. We were cutting both ways from the bottom of that shaft. The company were in a very great hurry for that tunnel, as it was the key to the position across the mountains, and they urged me to get the very best Cornish miners and put them into the tunnel so as to hurry it, and we did so. We went to Virginia City and got some Cornish miners out of those mines, and paid them extra wages. We put them into one side of the shaft, the heading leading from one side, and we had Chinamen on the other side. We measured the work every Sunday morning, and the Chinamen, without fail, always outmeasured the Cornish miners ; that is to say they would cut more rock in a week than the Cornish miners, and it was hard work, steady pounding on the rock, bone-labor. The Chinese were skilled in using the hammer and drill, and they proved themselves equal to the very. best Cornish miners in that work. They are very trusty, they are very intelligent, and they live un to their contracts."

xix

Mr. Strobridge, the superintendent, who is described by Mr. Low as a " smart pushing Irishman," and who utterly refused at first to boss Chi- nese, gave testimony similar to Mr. Crocker's. The road he says was built virtually by Chinese labor. His evidence is not less remarkable than that of the previous witness, and we extract a few of his answers .

Central Pacific built by Chinese.

"Q. You had charge of the work, had you not, pretty much, of the whole of Central Pacific Railroad ?- A. I was superintendent of construc- tion.

" Q. That gave you the supervision of all the labor on the road ?-- A. Yes, sir.

"How did you commence that road ?- A. We commenced it with white labor.

"Q. Did you change to any other ? A. Yes, we changed to Chinamen. I advertised extensively for men, wanted several thousand, and was never able to get over 700 or 800 men at one time. We increased finally to Unreliability of 10,000. A large number of men would go on the work under the ad- white labor. vertisements, but they were unsteady men, unreliable; some of them would stay a few days, and some would not go to work at all. Some would stay until pay day, get a, little money, get drunk and clear out. Finally we resorted to Chinamen. I was very much prejudiced against Chinese labor. I did not believe we could make a success of it. I be- lieve Chinese labor in this country on that kind of work, never had been a success until we put them on there; but we did make a success of them. We worked a great many of them, and built the road virtually with Chinamen, though the white labor increased very much after intro- ducing Chinese labor. We made foremen of the most intelligent of the At one time work- white men, teamsters and hostlers. We increased, I suppose, to 2,000 or 2,500 white men. At that time we were working fully 10,000 Chi- laborers. namen.

"Q. Then you changed your viewsras to the Chinese as laborers ?- A. Very much.

Mr. Strobridge, as will be seen in reply to further questions, confirms what Mr. Crocker says as to the Chinaman's capacity for heavy work :

" Q. How did you find them to compare in that heavy work on the Sierra Nevada tunnels, deep cuts and rock-works, with the white labor you had ?- A. They were equal to the white men.

" Q. They were equal to them ?- A. Yes.

"Q. You had tests occasionally made there, as I read at the time in White and Chinese- the newspapers, between white labor and Chinese ?- A. Yes. labor tested.

"Q. Who generally came out ahead ?- A. When they were working on In drift the white ; a drift, as they sometimes did, if there was any difference it was with the in the summit white men ; but the key of the situation was the summit tunnel, which came out ahead. tunnel the Chinese was very hard rock, and we undertook to stock that with the best of white men. We considered them to be at that time superior to China- men, but we were unable to keep the work filled with white men, although we only worked eight hours. We worked in eight hour shifts, and as we could not keep the work favorable we put in a gang of Chinamen. Finally, before the work was half done, perhaps, I do not recollect at what stage, the Chinamen had possession of the whole work. At last the white men swore they would not work with Chinamen anyhow.

"Q. In that particular tunnel, or all along ?- A. In that particular tunnel, not on the other work. We always had gangs of white men. We employed all the white men we could get so long as they would work.

ing 2,500 white and. 10,000 Chinese

No white man turned away. "Q. Would you always give white men labor when asked for it ? - A. I do not think there was ever a white man turned away for want of a place, to my knowledge."

Now, here was a case in which work was probably provided by Chinese labor for white men-a thing not at all inconsistent. Mr. Evans' evidence given below proves that the same thing occurred iu his experi- ence. Every hour of delay in completing the line was a loss in wealth and convenience to the people of California, and to workmen or others looking to a home on the shores of the Pacific. In other industries we shall see that the contention is made that but for Chinese labor in a given branch there would be no room for white labor, because competi- tion with the East would, without the Chinese, have been out of the question.

Do white laborers employed on rail- ways settle along the line ?

Before leaving the subject of railway building it is desirable to call attention to the evidence of Mr. David D. Colton, the Vice-President of the Southern Pacific Railroad. His evidence is specially valuable, because of the light it throws on the effect of a railway built partly by Chinese in settling up the country. One of the points made by persons opposed to Chinese is that their employment in the construction of a railway leaves the country without the advantages of a certain percentage of settlers sure to have been left behind by white laborers. The assumption that white laborers employed on a railway settle along the line they help to construct is gratuitous. The army of men employed by the contractors in the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, from Moosomin to the Rockies, went back like a returning tide when the contract was fulfilled. Mr. Colton's evidence shows what we might expect, that the moment the railway is constructed settlers pour in. To build a line must be a means of settling up the country through which it passes, and if it can be con- structed more rapidly by Chinese labor than would be the case were they not employed their employment must hasten settlement. A portion of Mr. Colton's evidence is as follows :--

" Q. Are you the vice-president or the president of the company ? A. At this time I am the vice-president.

"Q. You have constructed it by Chinese labor I believe ? A. Not altogether.

" Q. I mean principally ?- A. A proportion of it; the heads of the construction departments were white laborers.

" Q. The construction of this road gave employment to a great many white men ? A. Yes, sir.

" Q. You had no government subsidy, I believe, in aid of the construc- tion ?- A. No, sir; excepting the land subsidy.

" Q. What is the length of the road from Lathrop ?- A. From Lathrop, or rather from Goshen, between four and five hundred miles of the Southern Pacific line proper has been constructed.

" Q. A good part of it through a farming country ?A. A great por- tion of it.

" Q. It has opened up that vast country for settlement ? A. It has.

" Q. What class of people are and have been settling there since the

xxi

road was built ?- A. What you might term an average class of the immi- White settlers grants who settle up all our new Territories and States.

" Q. White immigrants ?- A. Pretty much all white. There are very few of any other kind. They are mostly from the Western States ; some are Europeans."

coming in since the building of the line.

The North-West, along the line of the Canadian Pacific Railway, dupli- cates this experience. After the line was built settlers went in, and now for many miles on either side it would be hard to find a homestead.

" Q. Could you have constructed that road without Chinese labor ? A. I do not think it could have been constructed so quickly, and with anything like the same amount of certainty as to what we were going to accomplish in the same length of time.

" Q. You had several thousand laborers on the road ?- A. Yes, sir.

" Q. Could you have obtained that number of white laborers ?- A. I think not.

Without Chinese labor neither the quickness or cer tainty in building line.

" Q. Has it not been your experience since your connection with the Central and Southern Pacific Railroads that you could not obtain white labor ?- A. We certainly could not in that number.

" Q. What has been the effect of the construction of these railroads Opened up upon the settlement and building up of the country ? A. From my ofland that would thousands of acres stand-point I shink it has done a great deal for this State and coast. It otherwise have has been the means of opening up thousands of acres of land that would lain vacant otherwise have lain vacant for a long time to come.

" Q. Have the settlements followed the railroads ?- A. Yes, sir ; and constantly increasing. Our railroad construction is the reverse in this country from what it is in any other. They are built in other countries to take people out. Here we build a railroad so that people may go into the wilderness and settle it up.

" Q. The railroad is the pioneer ?- A. Yes, sir. Many districts where Railway the there were twenty-five and thirty miles between each settlement, or farm pioneer. house, are now being settled up .. Take the San Joaquin Valley railroad campared with three or four years ago. One car would then go up the valley. I have been on the train when there would be but two or three passengers for the last twenty-five or thirty miles of the road. Now it takes four cars to do that business.

" Q. What has been the effect upon the prosperity of the State of the construction of lateral roads ?-- A. I think most favorable in every way. Lateral roads by themselves would not be profitable to railroad propri- etors, but they would be of great advantage to the country they would open up. I think as a rule they have advanced the value of lands from 200 to 1,000 per cent. Much of the land in the Salinas Valley, for to 1,000 per cent. instance, was offered to us at 82 an acre, for which they are charging now $25 and $35 an acre since the road was built through that country.

Lateral roads had increased the value of land 200

Mr. Colton is as unhesitating as Mr. Crocker and Mr. Strobridge as to the Chinaman's capacity for hard work and as a laborer generally.

Capacity for hard

"Q. What is the capacity of Chinese and their inclination to do hard work ?- A. I have never placed them in a position where they did not, to work. use a common expression, fill the bill.

" Q. Did you see the work done on the Southern Pacific Railroad after it was completed ?- A. Yes, sir.

"Q. Do you know what kind of men were employed there ?- A. I have 75 to 80 per cent. of stated that 75 or 80 per cent. of our construction force were Chinamen, construction force I think it is proper for me to say here, that so far as my knowledge goes Chinese. there was never a white laborer who wanted work who was refused.

2

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

" Q. What wages did you pay them : the same as you paid the Chinamen ? -A. No, sir ; we paid them as a rule twice what we paid the Chinamen.

"Q. You paid them twice as much ? Did they do twice as much work ? -A. No, sir ; but they did teaming and certain classes of work. I have Chinamen cannot never seen a Chinaman who could drive a team much. Teamsters and drive teams. all that department we give to white men. When we are building a bridge, or trestle work, " it is in the hands of white laborers, and all the labor done about it, outside of carpenter work, is given to white laborers."

See J. C. R. p. 720, and p. 318, Ap A.

Mr. West Evans gave evidence just as emphatic, just as clear in its ring of certainty. Such testimony can leave no doubt of the efficiency of Chinese labor on railways.

"Q. Have you been extensively engaged in building Railroads ?- A. Somewhat extensively.

"Q. What labor have you used on your works generally ?- A. In the manufacture of railroad-ties I have used white labor ; in building railroads I use mostly Chinese labor.

White labor for railway ties; Chi- nese labor build- give us better satisfaction generally.

"Q. What kind of labor is most satisfactory to you ? A. Chinamen

" Q. In railroading ?- A. Yes, sir ; in railroad building.

"Q. How extensively have you been engaged in getting out railroad-ties ? -A. I have been in the business ever since the Pacific Railroad was started. I think that was in 1863.

"Q. Supplying that company and others ?- A. Yes, sir.

"Q. How many white men do you employ in your busiest time ?- A. Probably from 400 to 500.

Here again is a case where Chinese labor provided employment for whites, for if the building of the road' were not going forward there would be no necessity for ties.

Hard to get white laborers.

"Q. Are you the West Evans who advertised evtensively in a news- paper a year or two ago, for white laborers ?- A. Yes, sir.

" Q. What success did you meet with ?- A. I got very few.

"Q. How many did you advertise for ?- A. I wanted a hundred.

"Q. How many did you get ?- A. Twenty or thirty, I guess. I sent more than a hundred up to the work, but they would not work when they got there.

"Q. For what reason ?- A. They thought it was too hard work.

" Q. How many did you retain ?- A. From twenty to thirty ; possibly thirty.

"Q. Did they work by contract or stated wages ?- A. They worked in building the railroad by the month, and in making ties they worked by the piece.

"Q. Which road was that ? A. The Mendocino road.

" Q. Do you think there is a surplus of white laborers in the State ?-

If surplus of white labor in State he has not been able to employ it.

A. I have not been able to employ it. I want men now and cannot get them.

"Q. What wages do you pay men for labor ?- A. In building the road we started men in on $40 a month and board. If a man was found to be worth more, we paid it to him.

"Q. Do you think the Chinese have been a benefit to the State? A. I think so.

Could not have " Q. Greatly so ?- A. I do not see how we could do the work we have achieved so much done here without them ; at least I have done work that would not have without the Chi- nese. been done if it had not been for Chinamen, work that could not have been done without them.

ing roads.

RECLAMATION OF WASTE LAND.

"Q. White men can do any work that the Chinamen could do ?- A. Oh, yes ; but, understand me, I tried to get white men to do this work and failed."

Not merely did railway work offer itself to this laborer ; millions of Tule-lands. acres of tule-lands were in the state. These lands, formed by the delta of the Sacramento and St. Joaquin rivers, and tide-waters are, as the story of Egypt shows, the most productive that can invite the farmer's toil. They are very extensive. Mr. Brooks calculates that there are 5,000,000 acres of such lands Forty bushels of wheat to the acre is an average yield on the lands formed by the winter freshets, while root crops of all kinds flourish with extraordinary luxuriance on the land reclaimed from the overflowing tide. Mr. Seward tells us that in 1876 only 5,500,000 acres . of land had been brought into cultivation of all kinds. Much of this is subject to total failure of crops in consequence of droughts. Redeemed swamp land is liable to no such danger. California is already a great wheat- producing State. According to the author just referred to, it is destined to produce at an early day far more wheat than any other State in the Union. No rain falls during the harvesting season. Grain may be stacked with impunity in the open field or piled up without thatching or cover of any kind. The climate and the fertility of the land reduce the cost of production to a minimum. The farmer has, moreover, the advan- tage of safe transportation. The reclamation of tule-lands and the irriga- tion of higher lands-these are the means by which California is to attain preeminence in agriculture. 150,000 acres of tule-land were 150,000 acres of' reclaimed in 1876. These lands are reclaimed by building dykes, ed in one year. gates and ditches, to prevent the overflow. The plan was to con- Chinese employed tract by the yard with some Chinese merchant, who supplied the men. by contract with a head man. Mr. Roberts, President of the Tide Land Reclamation Company, testified as follows :-

"Q. Could you reclaim these lands with white labor ?- A. Not success- Land could not fully at this time. I do not think that we could get the white men to do have been re- the work. It is a class of work that white men do not like. We have the Chinese. tried them to a certain extent. The special advantage of Chinese labor in work of that kind is owing to the contract system. They form little communities among themselves, forty or fifty or a hundred, and they are jointly interested in the contract. We could not get white men to do that. They would not be harmonious and agree among themselves, but the Chinese form little families among themselves, do their own cooking, live in little camps together, and the work is staked off for them sepa- rately. We first give a large contract to one or two Chinamen, and they sub-let it in smaller contracts ; that is the general system. White labor could not be worked in that way at all."

The witness created some surprise by stating that the land utterly Value of reclaimed tule -. waste before becomes worth from $20 to $100 an acre. The Chinese had land from $20 to» by their labor in all directions added eighty or ninety millions a year to $100 an acre. the wealth of California.

Mr. Solomon Heydenfeldt also gave very strong testimony as to the

tule-land reclaim --

claimed without

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

useful part played by Chinese in the reclamation of tule-lands, as well as in every field of labor they entered. Mr. Brooks tells us that a former Surveyer-General of the State of California computed the wealth for which the State was indebted to Chinese labor in the building of railways and the reclaiming of tule-lands at $289,700,000.

Only by Chinese up to the present could tule-lands have been re- claimed. It is established by incontrovertible evidence-indeed there is no evi dence on the other side-that only by Chinese labor could these tule-lands have been reclaimed. Whether or not white men could have stood the the malarious atmosphere, while working up to the middle in water, and a cloud of mosquitoes round their heads, they could not have been got to do it. Even at the present stage of Californian history it is clear these lands can be reclaimed only by Chinese. That a day will come when white men shall be willing to do that work there can be equally Chinese specially little doubt. But the Chinese, as one of the witnesses explained, on and reclamation. physiological principles are specially fitted for such employment, because fitted for tule- they seem less affected by air weighted with poison than white men. Until labor has become a drug in the market no white man can be got to go into this work of tule-land reclamation, and, therefore, granting for May fairly be · questioned the moment that in the case of work white men will do, a government whether a govern- should step in and exclude Chinese immigration from interfering with it, ment should pre- vent Chinese labor being available. or limit the interference, it may fairly be questioned whether we have not here a case in which Chinese immigration is an unqualified benefit.

Let tule-lands lie idle and it is an universal loss.

For if, in the absence of Chinese, these tule-lands would be left to the mosquito and the bull-frog, this would be a great loss to California, and, therefore, a great loss to the world, and, therefore, also a loss to every working man on the habitable globe. At a glance it seems as if it was only the man who owned these tule-lands, who was enriched when, for what he paid a $1 an acre or nothing, he gets after thoroughly reclaiming it an average of $75 an acre. Seven or ten million dollars in reality were in a single year (1876) brought to swell the wealth of mankind, available for the use of the laborer as well as the capitalist. There had been added 150,000 acres to the bread-producing area of the world.

So much added to the bread produc- ing area of the world.

In this case the Chinese laborer can in no way come into competition with white labor.

The tule-land have Chinamen, unless moral or political objec- tions.

Let us suppose then, that the companies engaged in the reclamation of companies should tule-lands require a given number of Chinese laborers, it is in the interest of every white man, and the working man, no less than the rich man, that they should have them, unless there are countervailing considerations of a moral or political character. Moral and political considerations may far outweigh material ones. Most important are these aspects of the present enquiry, and they will be dealt with later on.

"Their opponents admit they have been a very im- portant element in the develop- ment of the . country.

Mr. Briggs, who is opposed to Chinese immigration, admits that the Chinese "have been a very important factor in the development of the public works of California, and in the development of the resources of the state up to a certain period. I think," he says, "the time was when they were greatly needed and did much good '

XXV

It would not be just to Mr. Briggs or to the section of public opinion he represents to leave his evidence here.

Q. " If you look back in the history of California to the time when these Thinks it would great public works did not exist, would you not find that the bringing in Chinese had never be better if the of Chinamen, for some time any way, would have been a useful plan ?- come. A. I cannot say that, because I believe if the Chinese labor had not been available, that labor would have been brought here from other sources. I believe our public works would have been carried on as in the Eastern States twenty-five years ago. True, it would have been more difficult and work might have been retarded, but future development of the country by them would have been of vast importance to the State, whereas with the Chinese, when the railroads were completed, their mission was ended."

This is the most extreme position taken up by the anti-Chinese party. In answer to another question he took a more moderate view .

" I think the Chinese have been a very important factor in the development of our public works, and in the development of the resources of the state up to a certain period. We have outlived that day. The building of the overland railroads, and the interior roads, required a pe- culiar kind of labor ; laborers who would follow up the work and live in a very primitive way, board themselves, take care of themselves, without families ; labor that was always to be relied upon, and hence I believe the Chinese have done a great deal of good to the State. I think we derived a peculiar advantage from their presence here in early days; but we have outlived that day ; we have finished these works, and now this Chinese now in- labor must go into other channels, other industries, into agriculture, viticulture, factories, etc., and take the places which otherwise would be filled with white laborers in the towns and villages, and in the country, to an extent that almost prevents the whites from finding suitable employ- ment. They now take the place of boys and girls that are growing up in this country. I believe that the peculiar advantage derived from this labor has been outgrown."

The positions it will be seen are quite distinct. The one position is Different theories. that the Chinese in building transcontinental and local railways were pecting Chinese. almost indispensable, but that now they are injurious ; the other is that the country would have been ultimately better had it never seen them. There are those who think the Chinaman's usefulness is gone, if he was not from first to last an injury. There are again those who think he has been, is and will be useful.

Men, like Mr. Babcock, say that in a new country cheap labor is a In a new country necessity, and a witness before the Joint Committee who was against necessity. cheap labor a Chinese immigration argued that in a new country cheap labor was analogous to protection to infant industries. Indeed, Mr. Babcock goes so far as to say that cheap labor instead of driving out labor provides a market for it, and we shall see that under certain conditions this pro- position is sound, though there is a lurking fallacy in the sense attached by some parties to the word labor.

The mere political economist might ask what is the meaning of such evidence taken at a grave enquiry ?

terfere with white boys and girls.

in California res-

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

Has a govern- ment anything to The theory that a government has nothing to do with the rate of do with regulating wages may be good political economy, but it is not calculated the rate of wages ? to commend itself to wage-earners, and is not likely to be acted on by the government of a country where wage-earners have a potent voice in the constitution. Nor, indeed, would it be acted on by a wise statesman, however unchecked his power. It is, however, a dangerous thing to encourage the idea that a government can be paternal and be useful. But there is a wide distance between the conviction that govern- If wages are lowered by an un- natural compe- tition a case is made out for governmental interference. ment can do everything and that it can do nothing. If it can be shown that wages are lowered not by a healthy and fair competition between fellow citizens, but between the citizens of the State and aliens whose standard of comfort is below what the ordinary decencies of life require, who have thrown aside every weight which could impede them in the race of competition, then a case would be made out for the consideration of the Government. At the same time there is the peril of the delusion taking hold of the mind of the wage-earners, that wages can be indefin- itely raised. The moment wages rise to that height which sends profits below the rate of interest plus a fair return for risk and exertion on the part of the capitalist, the speculation will be abandoned, and production in that particular industry ceases. The stoppage of production diminishes the general wealth of mankind, and in that diminution every man, laborer as well as capitalist, shares, and the laborers immediately thrown out of employment lose in addition what they would have earned, at current rates, during the time they are out of employment, had they been employed. If, therefore, an industry can be carried on at a profit with Chinese labor which could not be so carried on with white labor, then it is in the interest of the working man and in the interest of the whole community that such industry should be worked by means of the Chinese, unless, as we have said before, there are counterbalancing considerations. The character of the labor, whether free or servile, would be an element of great importance. If the labor employed be truly servile, in the end it can only be attended by a curse. It may enrich a few individuals, but it infuses a virus into labor relations and the community generally which no wealth or prosperity can outweigh.

Wages cannot be indefinitely raised.

If an industry can be carried on with Chinese which without them would have to be abandoned- query : are they not an advantage there ?

But moral may outweigh material considerations. Influence of servile labor.

Chinese contracts is it coolie labor ?

The evidence establishes that Chinese are as a rule brought under an arrangement something like this : the money is advanced them to cross the ocean and they agree to pay so much in return. Owing to the structure of Chinese society on the Coast this undoubtedly looks like contract-labor, but it is not ; it is wholly different from the contract by which coolies are carried to Peru. It might be properly described in a familiar phrase-assisted passage-only that the assisted passage in this case is a private arrangement. The objectionable feature about it is the manner in which the repayment is enforced.

An ugly feature.

Mr. Frederick F. Low, whom we have before quoted (and there could he no higher authority), gives evidence as follows .

CONTRACTS WITH LABORER

"Q. How is the contract enforced here? For instance, a Chinaman The way the con- lands on our shore ; there is no law here to enforce a contract made tract is enforced. abroad. By what means do they compel the Chinaman to pay the price per month to the Six Companies .- A. You can very well conceive that Chinamen coming here, ignorant of our laws, language and customs, with these Six Companies or any one firm or company telling him what his duties are, with the surveillance that they exercise over him, and with an arrangement which they are supposed to have, in fact I know they have, Arrangement with the steamship companies, that no Chinaman can purchase a ticket with steamship companies. to return home unless he brings a certificate from the heads of these com- panies, that he is free from debt ; it is very natural that he will pay his pro rata per month until he works out his debt.

"Q. The Pacific Mail Steamship Co., a common carrier, subsidized by the general Government, refuses to take a Chinaman home unless his associates say he has paid his debts ?- A. Not only that company, but all companies-other companies aside from the Pacific Mail. There was a company here, of which Macondray & Co. were the agents, and complaint was made to me by missionaries on behalf of the Chinese. I remember going myself to Major Otis, who was the head of the house of Macondray & Co. I told him I thought it was a great outrage that they should put this exaction upon the Chinese. Otis said 'this is the custom ; it has been in existence for years ; the Pacific Mail Co. do it, and if we do not conform to the custom all the trade will go over their vessels and we will not get any.' I presume it is the custom that exists to-day."

Then on all the large works, such as tule-land reclamation and railway Contracts for building, the contract is not between employés and employed but between works. labor on public the employer of labor and some " merchant,"-really, of course, a labor- broker. On tule-lands the contract is made at so much a yard, and the Contract asto tule- ·employés need care little about the fitness or unfitness of individual men ; a yard. . lands, at so much on a railway it is different-so much a month being paid each man-and one witness, a railway contractor examined at Portland, said that when a On railways the man was objected to, the boss Chinaman instead of removing him from the adopted. gang system is road transferred him to another gang, and they were all so much alike that the deception was not easily discovered.

A great deal of evidence was taken in 1876, and some by ourselves, on Character of the character of the Chinaman as a laborer, and in his praises-and the laborers. Chinamen as praises were well deserved for many humble virtues-his "docility " is dwelt on and his " reliability," and one of the reasons given why the labor The "reliability" was so reliable was that the contract was with the " boss " and not with on railways may of the Chinaman the men. Therefore, if the boss had to have a certain number of men at be deceptive. the railway the fact that ten of his men might be sleeping off an opium debauch would not prevent ten others being in their places. One of the witnesses, a railway contractor, who said he never saw a Chinaman drunk, said he had seen them on his line under the influence of opium. The staying power of the Chinaman at railway work may, therefore, have been deceptive, and it is only just to the white laboring man to point this ·out. Still the evidence can leave no doubt that the majority of them are capable of hard toil. At heavy work as well as at the lighter labor in

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

It is possible for labor to be useful to a railway and detrimental to the country.

the towns it is proved that they show themselves more " reliable " and more " docile" than white men. A Government cannot look at a citizen of a free country as a mere tool in the hand of capital. The jade is much more docile than the charger and each is useful in its place.

A country is not developed merely by work. The character and habits. of the workers are of importance, as well as the incidents attaching to the labor, and men like Mr. Briggs, Mr. Pixley and others hold-as a railway sub-contractor already referred to as examined at Portland held-that though the railway may pay more for white labor the country gains in settlement. This, however, is stated as an à priori theory not as a pro- position established by facts, and we have seen it did not hold good in the case of the Canadian Pacific Railway. And if the railway be not built there will be no settlers with characters to consider. We have seen above that railways built by Chinese labor led to the settlement of whites in the country through which the railway passed. There are other standpoints from which this question must be viewed, which command a more extensive outlook, and one more fruitful of suggestion.

MINING.

Mr. Seward calcu- lates that the Not only as a railway builder but as a miner the Chinaman has played Chinese miners of a large part in California. So early as 1861, mining claims had been California must have paid the state $1,350,000. bought by Chinese miners to the extent of $1,350,000, and 82,160,000 had been paid by them for water rates. They had to cope with great difficulties. They had to face oppression on the part of ruffians and submit to hostile taxation. But no thought of receding occurred to them. An Act in 1852 Partial legislation provided that a license of $3 a month should be levied on foreigners working against the Chinese. in placer and quartz mining. It also provided that companies employing foreigners should pay the tax, and that foreigners not paying the license could not sue or defend in the courts. In another year this tax was raised to $4 a month. The next year it was augmented $2 a month. The tax was clearly intended to drive the Chinese miner away. In 1861, an Act was passed which was so worded as to exclude the Chinese miner from taking metals from the mines or holding a mining claim, " unless he shall have a license therefor of $4 a month." Such taxes honestly administered would have been burdensome enough, but it would seem that by dating licenses Even the laws were not honestly administered. back the collectors were guilty of great oppression. Mr. Speer, the author of "China and the United States," quoted by Mr. Seward, gives a picture of still, worse conduct. The collectors made the most illegal demands, and " if the men refused to pay, they struck, stabbed or shot them ; perhaps tied them to a tree and whipped them," or drove them forward, the collector from his horse laying on a horsewhip until they reached a town where still more grinding tyranny could be exercised. But still worse recitals might be given, and a Committee of the two houses. of California, which met in 1862, reported that eighty-eight Chinamen had been murdered. Notwithstanding, with the pertinacity of their race and its indifference to danger when in pursuit of any object, they held on ..

Cruelty and oppression.

Still the Chinese miner held on.

xxix

They are admirable miners whether at digging or placer mining. For the one purpose they are patient in toil, as all the evidence proves ; in the other case there is, as one of the witnesses explains, a similarity between placer mining and rice culture, in each case the workman squats on his hams and is exposed to the sun. Mr. Sneath, who was examined before the In certain cases of Joint Committee, testified that in certain hydraulic mining where a mine a mine will pay hydraulic mining will not pay with white labor, they can make it pay with Chinese. He when it will not with Chineselabor . gave an instance in which two hundred Chinamen were employed and pay with white. where without such labor the mine would have to go unworked.

Mr. Degroot, whose evidence will be found summarized on p. 357, Appendix A, having declared his belief that the presence of Chinese had been detrimental to labor interests and mining industry, says :

"My attention was first called to this fact as long ago as 1853-4, when I White indiffer- was acting as collector of the foreign miners' tax. At that day we had a great ence to let in Chinese to placer - mining. deal of river-bar mining, and placer mining of every character, that would pay from $3 to $6 ; it would average $4 or $5 a day to each man ; but that was hardly considered white wages then, and the community gener- ally was indifferent as to the presence of the Chinese, and thought it was well enough to let these people come in and work that character of mines, believing that it would not pay white labor then and probably. never would. The Chinese went on, and by their method of mining they cov- ered up a great deal of good ground. They prevented white men from coming in because they did not like to mine near them, and in that way a good deal of mining-ground was lost which we will never be able to work out. Subsequently they began to increase and to be employed as laborers in the mines-that is, to be hired. This went on increasing. We thought at first they could not be employed to advantage in certain classes of mining, or in any class, but it was found that they could. They were hired first in placer mines, and then in drift-digging to some extent, and finally in hydraulic mining to very good advantage, except for moving stones and working in the pit ; and as they became educated to the busi- ness they greatly displaced white labor, and now we have them employed in every kind of mining as laborers at good wages. This operation is con- From being placer . stantly going on and displacing white men. The result is that the country miners become employed in all kinds of work and at good wages. all through from Kern River to Shasta, a distance of five hundred miles, is full of villages in a state of decadence. It is true these villages were partially depopulated along about 1857, when the surface placers were considerably exhausted and a great many miners left and went to Fox River and elsewhere. Many of them returned afterwards, but in the meantime the Chinese labor was substituted and when they came back they found that their claims were occupied. They found their position Miners returning as laborers occupied, and they drifted away again ; left the mines instead to abandoned claims find them ·of working them, staying and building up homes. In that way the Chinese occupied. have come in and do nearly all of what is now called river-bed washing, turning the channels of rivers and washing them. There is a class of white men, residing in the mines from the first, who have made it a busi- ness to take up claims and sell them to the Chinese, which is in contra- vention, of course, of the laws of the country, and also of the local laws of the miners ; but the miners leaving, these local laws have not been enforced, and these white men who do not like generally to work very A class of white men who, contrary well have made it a business to take up claims and sell them to the to law, take up Chinese. When they are once inducted into these claims, these men who to Chinese. claims and sell

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

sell them remain and exercise a sort of protection over them. In some places there are very large numbers of them. In the vicinity of Oroville there are between three and four thousand Chinamen mining upon the public domain who have obtained their claims in that manner."

It seems hard and unreasonable to complain that Chinamen came to work abandoned mines. It will be noted how they made progress. From being hired first in placer mining they go on "to be hired in every kind as laborers at good wages." This is what takes place in every branch of industry, and experience shows they gradually gain on the white man, who has neither their temperance nor their frugality.

On no ground of political economy can a principle be found for ex- cluding these people from the mines. Does it not, too, seem better that abandoned mines should be worked than left idle ? It must be better- certainly for the time. The miner would answer, for we have met the answer-" That's all very well, but I regard that abandoned mine as a refuge when luck is low." As to the employer of labor, when the labor is there, has he not a right to utilize it ?

It will be well for the reader to note here, because it will come up again, this peculiarity of the Chinaman-he does not break up new ground, and on this hang important issues.

THE FIELD AND VINEYARD.

Col. Bee, the advocate of the Chinese, before the Joint Committee says : that when the harvest opens the Chinese dot the fields from one end of the State to the other, and he contends that it is because of this that Ca- lifornia can compete with the granaries of the world. This last argument is a two-edged sword ; for, paradoxical as it may sound, living labor by which a State might mount as on wings to enormous wealth is attended with a fearful Nemesis in no distant future.

It is not, however, as an agricultural laborer that the Chinaman shines. Mr. Easterby tells us they do not seem to understand horses as well as whites. They are employed receiving the wheat into the header wagons, where there is a scarcity of white labor. Mr. Badlam says,' he has met very few who like Chinese labor on farms. "For the wheat crop Chi- namen are not of any use."

But Mr. Hollister (see page 326), who deposed in 1876 that he owned 75,000 acres of land and 50,000 sheep, puts Chinamen ahead of all other laborers. On them alone, he says, the farmer can rely. They adapt them- selves to all work. Without cheap labor agriculture would cease to be followed.

There is a quality, however, which makes them attractive to at least some farmers. They are not liable to the starts and impulses of white men. Mr. Easterby says: "For instance, sometimes where there are white men only employed, if one or two knock off it stops the whole gang. The Chinese when employed will stay as long as you keep them."

FRUIT-GROWING.

There is a field of country life, however, in which the Chinaman seems The Chinaman to be peculiarly at home. California is one of the richest fruit countries and the fruit in the vineyard in the world. Strawberries, nearly equal to the English strawberry, garden. flourish all the year round. California plums are famous, and the peaches attain a great size, but are inferior to those of British Columbia in flavor ; they want delicacy. Its apples are not comparable to those produced elsewhere, but its pears are hardly equalled, while the grape flourishes with a luxuriance which leaves the valleys of la Champagne and the vine- yards of Burgundy behind. Already its wines have attained a reputation. The wines of The soil and climate of California are, in the opinion of many, better than already a reputa- California have those of France for grape culture. Every year it is contended is there 69.) tion. (Seward, p. a comet year. The wine-growers assured us that the climate is perfect, that the grapes ripen fully and without fail ; that there are no early frosts as in Germany or France to hasten the picking. A Joint Committee of the Chinese called for Legislature of California reported, so far back as 1862, that with cheap in 1862. by the Legislature labor California could supply all the wine required for home consumption, besides sending large quantities abroad. " A portion of Chinese with white labor would add incalculably to the resources of the State in this particular branch." Already the impression prevailed that California was destined to be a greater wine-producing country than France.

"The wine crop of France in 1849 was 925,000,000 gallons, valued at $100,000,000. In 1853 she had in vineyards 4,873,934 acres, giving less than 200 gallons to the acre, making about 8,107 square miles or an area of 250 miles in length by 32 in breadth. California contains 188,981 square miles, which would give 120,947,840 acres, so that if only one- twenty-fifth of our area should be planted with vineyards we should have an amount equal to France. We have a fresher soil than that of France, and a better climate for grape-culture, and we could produce larger quan- tities of wine and of better quality than is grown upon worn-out lands."

The report goes on to say that the wine trade would soon be second only to the mining and farming interests ; and then a splendid vision rises before the Committee's mind, in " the production of rice, tea, sugar, tobacco and dried fruits of every description," if only cheap labor were at hand. Events have, to a large extent, justified these confident anticipations. For the first nine months of 1876, 561,033 gallons of native wine were exported from California ; the recipts for the same time being 1,266,736 gallons, and 43,050 gallons of California brandies. Mr. Henry Gerkes stated in 1876 that his vineyard produces annually about 150,000 gallons of wine ; See p. 336., Ap. A. that California had 40,000,000 of vines growing, of which three-fourths were in good bearing condition ; and that the crop of 1875 amounted to about 8,000,000 gallons of wine and probably some 80,000 gallons of grape brandy. One vine-grower says that Chinese laborers are employed in all Chinese employed parts of the business, that they quickly learn to prune and take care of business of vine- in all parts of the culture. the vine, and that their labor is indispensable. Mr. Hill, whose evidence See p. 337., Ap. A. will be found summarized, having given the usual good character to the Chinamen for temperance, industry, honesty, efficiency and docility-

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

" creating no trouble whatever "-says, that in his district some five hundred Chinese are employed in the vineyards. On being asked whether white labor could be got to do the work, he says :

A witness says vine-growing would have to be Chinese labor. " I do not think we could. I think it is one of the industrial resources of the country which would have to be abandoned if it depended on white abandoned but for labor. There are certain seasons of the year when large accessions to the ordinary number of hands is required, when the crop is ripening, and I do not think white men could be got on the spur of the moment to do the work."

He adds, that but for Chinese labor the business in Sonoma valley would have to be abandoned, and hundreds would be ruined. Some idea may be formed of the value of Chinese labor in that section of the State from this fact : in four years vine-growing has increased the value of property from $40 to $200 an acre. A competent witness, Mr. J. M. Curtis, states that nineteen-twentieths of the grape-picking is done by Chinese.

The white laborer, moreover, it is said, does not like the business of stooping and squatting on his haunches all day picking berries, grapes and currants. This sort of work "strikes him as unmanly," as does hoeing and weeding, but the Chinaman takes kindly to the squatting and stooping posture. Another witness testified that a very large amount of fruit which would otherwise go to waste was saved by Chinese labor. It was admitted by those antagonistic to them, that without the Chinese the harvest could not be got in.

Chinese are employed on every strawberry ranche in the state, and the fruit-growers declare they could not get on without them. " Yet," says Mr .. Gibson, "with this industry carried on almost exclusively by Chinese cheap labor, our strawberries cost more by the pound than in New York, Phila -- delphia or Chicago. If our producers had to pay white laborers two dol- lars a day for far less efficient service than the Chinaman gives for one dollar, or one dollar and twenty-five cents a day, who could afford to eat the fruit when brought to market ? As it is, even employing Chinese labor, our producers pay as much a pound or basket for picking as is paid by the producers in New York, Delaware or Maryland."

Mr. Brier a large fruit-grower, gave evidence to the following effect :- The Chinese mostly perform labor that is disconnected with team work ; almost every other kind of labor in the world, except in connection with the running of threshing machines, the Chinamen perform, more particu- larly in the fruit business. I regard the Chinaman as superior to any other nationality as laborers in their own departments. At the present prices it would be impossible to carry on the fruit business with white labor. The Chinese are more skilful and reliable than white men. They will stay until they learn their business. White men will not do that ; you cannot keep them. If the white man amounts to anything, he will soon acquire enough to start in business for himself. I employ Chinamen because I would not have boys nor girls from the city. If somebody would board them and put them in my orchard to work, I would not have them, from what I know of them. I could not afford it. There is too.

HOP-PICKING : BOOTS AND CIGARS.

much competition to make people who are wide awake employ boys. If I undertook to work boys at all, I would take boys from the needy class. It is a matter of certainty that employers and farmers cannot work boys to advantage. In my business I pay Chinamen $1 a day, and they board themselves. I furnish them with a house and wood. At present prices of fruit we could not raise it without Chinese labor. I think the employ- ment of Chinese labor in this department, and all other departments, has kept up the price of white labor.

The evidence is that hop-picking could not be carried on without Hop-picking. Chinese. Two thousand two hundred Chinese were in 1876 engaged in See p. 231., Ap. A. See p. 308., Ap A. canning fruit in San Francisco and 2,500 in selling fruit and vegetables.

This is a subject on which, were we reporting in the interest of Califor- nia, it would be necessary to dwell at greater length. But enough has been said to show that, as regards a very large industry in this State, the Federal Legislatur, took a serious, though it may be a justifiable step, when it committed itself to exclusion of Chinese labor.

MANUFACTURES.

When we come to manufactures, the evidence is that many of the Evidence that manufactures now in existence would not exist but for the presence of the factures would many of the manu Chinese Colonel Bee, in his answer to our second question, gives a his- the Chinese. not exist but for tory of the rise of Chinese manufactures. From being employés as boot-makers, cigar-makers and the like they went into the business them- selves, and we visited shops' where we saw Chinese using the latest improvement in machinery for the making of boots. Before the Chinese Before Chinese labor was utilized in manufactures the boots were got in the main from in boot trade boots labor was utilized Massachusetts, and it stands to reason the price was the sum of the cost chusetts. came from Massa- of making them, the cost of transit, and the profit to the producer and distributor. By making them in San Francisco one of these items was saved, perhaps more, for in some instances the producer and the distributor were one, and there can be no doubt boots fell by a very large percent- age. According to Mr. Lessler's statistics (page 337), in 1876 there were Number of Chi- fifteen boot and shoe factories employing 1,892 whites and 1,970 Chinese. nese employed.

The same thing took place in respect of cigars. Instead of importing Cigars in the same them from Havanna they made the Havanna at home. During one manufaturced in way came to be year in one district of California 114,598,000 cigars were made by Chi- the State. nese labor. This gives some idea of the magnitude of the trade. One wit- ness said the internal revenue tax was paid on 9,300,000 cigars a month-

The woollen and jute bags manufactures are among the foremost Woollen manufac industries. In the woollen manufacture only 2,000,000 pounds of wool tures. are used and 38,000,000 pounds are exported, competition with Europe as yet being out of the question. In two mills there are 600 hands At first some whites and Chinese were employed, and it seems instead of Whites displacing Chinese displacing white labor white girls have taken the place of Chinese. Chinese, and the witness said he found American boys and girls just as good as Chinese.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

In jute factory most of the hands are Chinese. See p. 292, Ap. A.

In the jute factory most of the operatives are Chinese. The evidence was to the effect that Scotch girls had been imported to do the work but went away, and that this business could not go on without Chinese labor.

The witness from whose evidence we gather these facts respecting woollen and jute manufactures swore that at first there could have been neither woollen nor jute bags manufactured without the Chinese. No white operatives could be got.

Operatives in jute factory almost entirely Chinese.

" Q. Of the whole number of your operatives how many are Chinese? A. I should think about one-half, exclusive of the Pacific Jute Factory. There the number is almost entirely Chinese, except the foreman. We tried there to have Scotch help-white girls. We imported them for that very purpose, but could not keep them a fortnight. They ran away, and we could not keep them, so that we have very few now.

" Q. Would you still be able to go on manufacturing without Chinese ?- Chinese indispen- A. I think it would be prejudicial generally to our factory. I would say,, as to the Pacific Jute Factory, that it could not go on without Chinese. are labor.

" Q. What is the difference ?- A. In the Pacific Jute Factory the looms so much heavier that very few women can run them.

" Q. Do women run those looms in Scotland ? A. Yes, sir ; whether they are stronger there or how it is I do not understand ; but it is very hard work. We are in direct competition with them.

" Q. How many Chinese do you employ ? A. In the jute factory, I should judge, about 120.

"Q. How many persons own this jute factory ?- A. I should judge about thirty.

Jute bags and the ariff.

" Q. So the tariff is kept up for the benefit of thirty white persons and 120 Chinamen ?- A. We have not asked particularly to have the tariff kept up, except that we introduced the industry and we found that we could not compete without Chinese labor.

" Q. The cost of bags to the farmer is the cost of production with the cost of manufacture added ?- A. Not at all.

" Q. If it were not for the tariff, bags from Scotland and Hindostan would be likely to absorb the market here ?- A. You might have a bag that would cost five cents ; but if there was no local factory it might cost twenty cents.

" Q. I am speaking of the competition between Dundee and Hindos- tan ?- A. Suppose you have no local factory. You might have to pay twenty cents, as you did last year."

The manufacture of jute bags has an important hearing on the export of wheat. Wheat in bags is less likely to shift during a long and it may be tempestuous voyage than when in bulk. Shipowners and insurers have, therefore, insisted that wheat shipped to Europe shall be shipped in bags. Anything that would lower the price of bags would directly benefit the farmer, directly and indirectly the whole State. Manufacturing the bags in the State has, of course, lowered considerably the price of bagging.

Now, this industry could not be carried on without the Chinese.

The President of the San Jose Woollen Mills says :

See p. 296, Ap. A. " When we are running full we employ about twenty white hands, and our business gives employment to eight or ten white men outside. We

XXXV

employ about sixty-five Chinese. About three-fourths of the expense of running the institution, including the labor performed in selling our goods, is paid to white labor, and about one-fourth is paid to Chinese. Chinese necessary We employ Chinese because it is necessary to compete in our business. pete successfully. if they are to com- To our white help we have to pay wages far in advance of what is paid in similar institutions in the Eastern States, with which we come directly into competition. To Chinamen, on an average, we pay less. A year and a half ago we compared our pay-rolls with several factories in the East, and I found that in our business and in theirs there was but very little difference ; that with our high-priced white labor and low-priced Chinese labor, we average with them. They are twenty per cent. under us at this time.

"Q. How are you able to compete with them under these circum- stances ?- A. I do not know that we can compete with then next year, but we have been able to hold our own pretty well by having the advan- tage of the market in the selection of our wools.

"Q. Would your business of manufacturing have been started, or now exist, without Chinese labor ?- A. It could not be carried on without it.

"Q. The work, then, that is being done would not have been done at all ? A. The work that is being done would not have been done at all. If the Chinamen were taken from us we should close up to-morrow.

"Q. You say the reason why you are compelled to have cheaper labor Without the than white is on account of the difficulty of competition in your business have to close up. Chinese would with Eastern products ?- A. Yes, sir ; that is the difficulty.

" Q. Does the difficulty arise in no degree from competition here with other manufacturers ?- A. If there was no competition with the East, and all the other mills here employed this cheap Chinese labor, we should have to do it too ; but if we all agreed upon it here, and there were no mills in the East, we could employ white labor.

"Q. Does not the expense of transportation, etc., give you the control of the market among your various mills here ?- A. No, sir ; it does not give us the control.

"Q. Then, notwithstanding your cheap labor, you find difficulty in com- peting with the mills in the East ? A. Yes, sir."

In this connection the summary of Mr. Morgenthau's evidence should Even with Chi- be read (page 330).

nese cheap labor, hard to compete with the East.

According to Mr. Lessler's figures, about fifty per cent. of the laborers employed in San Francisco are Chinese. Mr. Badlam's evidence (page 231) shows how widely they are employed.

The manufacture of cordage has been secured to the State by Chinese labor and 6,500,000 pounds are consumed on the Coast, nearly all of which is made in California from Manila hemp.

In the manufacture of soap and candles, and matches, the alleged cause Unreliability of of the transferrence of the work in the main into Chinese hands is the white labor. unreliability of white labor; while the Chinese competition in broom- making, now an important industry, commenced by four or five Chinese employés going into the trade themselves. Mr. Pixley, whose brother was driven out of the husiness, thus explains how it was done :

"The capital required was not large, and the result was that the six How the Chinese or seven Chinamen, under a white man, took up the business. They were required to keep a horse and wagon to dispose of their wares. This

set up broom man- ufacturing.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

horse was kept in a stable. The Chinese lived in the same stable with the horse, fed and cooked for themselves in an upper loft, and slept there, and so reduced the wages that much, thrusting in this particular instance my brother out of his employment."

Mr. Low (see page 187) contends that Chinese labor enabled men to start manufactures, and inclines to the belief that as the manufactures get firmly established and organized the tendency would be to use white labor. He compares Chinese cheap labor to protection, and uses the usual argument in favor of it :

As manufactures get established Chinese labor can " After a manufacture gets firmly established, after they get skilled labor, and get apprentices who have learned the trade, perhaps the tariff then be dispensed with, may be lessened, or may be taken off altogether, because it can then successfully compete with manufactures from abroad. So, too, with regard to manufactures here. But for the Chinese I doubt if we would have had any manufactures, or they would have been small as compared with the present. The very fact of the Chinese being here, and that their labor was procurable at a moderate rate, has induced the opening of manufac- tories, and perhaps now or shortly, as they can get apprentices at work, the Chinese labor can be dispensed with.

"Q. Do you think that that result would work out of itself naturally, that is to say, white labor to be introduced and crowd out Chinese labor ? Would that result gradually come about, or will it be necessary to cut off Chinese labor in the first place ?- A. I think it is gradually coming about.

"Q. Without interference ?- A. Without interference. It may be that public opinion has some effect, but I know in these shoe factories they are gradually working boys into the factories, so that where they had two or three hundred Chinese laborers they have not one hundred now, and they are supplying their places with white labor."

We do not go into a number of other industries, believing that enough has been said for our immediate purpose.

Mr. Briggs was asked what effect the Chinese had had on trade with Asia, and his reply was that they had stimulated it and had increased the volume both of exportations and importations. The Chinese merchants stand high everywhere. Mr. Babcock, who had constant dealings with the Chinese, said he never lost a dollar through one of them in his life. When the Burlinghame Treaty was made with China Mr. Bee declared a man could count all the American merchant marine engaged in the trade upon his fingers. Now, 400,000 tons were engaged in the Chinese trade. For the first nine months of 1876, according to the Commercial Herald, exports to the value of $2,211,798 were sent out of San Francisco to China alone.

Thus it is clear that California is indebted to Chinese cheap labor for :

1. Early railway communication with the Eastern States.

2. Getting large tracts of land early under cultivation.

3. Perhaps for the existence-certainly for the existence at its present magnitude-of fruit-growing and vine culture.

4. For the reclamation of large tracts of tule-lands.

5. For the rapid progress of its manufactures.

6. For stimulating the Asiatic trade.

DOMESTIC SERVANTS.

We say nothing about the amount they pay into the public treasury, as miners, hawkers, etc., nor the amount they necessarily, apart from direct and indireet taxation, drop to swell the public wealth. Mr. Babcock See M. E., p. 13. calculates that they spend $900,000 a month.

Of all the gifts, however, which the Chinese have given the State of The Chinaman as California that, for which many seemed most grateful and about the char_ a domestic. acter of which, with hardly a qualification, all are agreed, is the domestic servant. This, too, is the ground on which the fiercest skirmishes of this battle have taken place.

The universal testimony is that they make good domestic servants. In Make good domestics.

fact there could not be stronger proof of it than this : most of those who attack them and say they should not be employed as domestic servants are like Condamine's cordelier, whom his convert to fasting and temperance, found feasting at supper, with three or four dishes and a couple of flagons of wine. The cordelier laughed, and said he preached as he did for a crown but would not put his preaching in practice for one hundred thousand. When a man denouncing the Chinese is asked why he employs them in the character of domestic servants, his answer is because he cannot do without them, and we fear it is a gratuitous assumption that white girls could be found if the Chinese were away. One witness after another praises the Chinese in this character, and we have ourselves seen that they are admirable servants. From 5,000 to 6,000 are employed in San Francisco alone. Mr. Briggs, while bearing testimony to their efficiency, makes a very awful charge against them :

"Q. What is their character ? Are they clean and efficient as domestic servants ?- A. For many years they were about the only domestic servants we had here, and my observation is that generally they are quite as efficient, and as useful, as white servants ; and quite as reliable.

" Q. What about their personal character? Are they cleanly or repulsive or what ?- A. Those Chinese servants who enter homes are cleanly in their habits ; there is no objection to them on the score of uncleanliness.

"Q. While white help in houses is scarce, would it not seem to you to be very important, especially to the women of a community, that this sup- ply of domestic labor should not be interfered with ? - A. The moral influence of Chinese upon children is a wretched thing, and if a family has children it would be almost suicidal to permit the Chinese servants to associate with the children, or to have charge of them. I think the objection to them is made on that score as much as any other. Instances are not rare where these male servants have debauched children, and with their lack of moral standard the only restraint would be fear of detection."

We are bound to say there is no evidence that they are more prone to No evidence that so revolting a crime than other peoples. Instances occur in puritanical England of coarse and brutal natures violating children of even tender years. Of course a Chinaman, any more than men of other nationalities or different civilivation, is not the proper person to have about female children, and instances have occurred in Caucasian countries which would suggest that sometimes a male attendant would be better than

3

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

incredible.

a female attendant for little boys. The evidence is overwhelming that no white girl can be got to go into the country, away from society and far from the church-going bell ; and what are isolated country homes to The gross charges do? If these Chinese domestics were dishonest and grossly and revoltingly made against Chinese domestics immoral as so many contend, without giving evidence to support the contention, it is not possible to conceive they would be welcomed into so many homes as cooks and in other positions. Is it not certain we should have heard of Chinamen being lynched ? In the South when negroes violated women lynching was put into operation, and a man would be as loth to let the outrage become public in the case of his wife as in that of his child, while there could be no difference of degree in the passionate sense of wrong. Nevertheless it is possible that even here it may be right to put down the dam. But, if so, let it be put down on grounds that will bear examination.

We have seen that the Chinaman was welcomed and that he did a Questions raised in evidence. good work. Several questions were raised by the witnesses we exam- ined in San Francisco, and all bear on the subject of the immigration of Chinese into British Columbia. Were there coincident with this bene- ficent action on the part of Chinese laborers evils peculiar to Chinamen, and of such a gravity as to make it doubtful whether the State would not have been better without their help ? Is the condition of things produced and now existing in consequence of that labor such that a wise man might well wish the sound of its pick had never been heard in Is China a ground California ? Is it practical to contemplate China at all as a source whence a western population should desire to have its numbers swelled? Although up to the present Chinese labor may have been useful, are there, looking to the future, dangers which should attract the attention of statesmen ? These general questions embrace a number of minor ones.

from which it is sible or desira- ble todraw immigrants ?

The problem calling for solution is one so complicated, touching at one point principles of justice and government, at another affecting great material interests ; at one time opening up ethnic and national vistas which force the mind, in any degree prone to the "malady of thought," to move along the plane of cautions far-seeing statesmanship ; and again raising such momentous social and industrial issues, that any body of men called on to deal with it, should have before them the complete materials for forming a judgment on the merits of every charge made against the Chinese, and the soundness of every theory put forward by their advocates and friends. Now, to understand the Chinese immigrant you must be acquainted with him at home.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Several witnesses examined before the Joint Committee, and some of the witnesses examined by ourselves, gave their views respecting the character of the Chinaman in China. The impression is wide- spread that this is intimately related to the matters with which we have to deal, and it has an important bearing on the question whether the Chinese belong to a race inferior to our own. Mr. Crowley declares they See M. E., p. 23. are "a nation of thieves," and many witnesses affirm that they have no Sweeping charges respect for truth. One witness swears he has known them openly to falsehood. of theft and practice revolting crimes. That unmentionable offences, infanticide, the = sale of female children, cruelty, idolatry, gross superstition, and low and degrading customs prevail is sworn by several witnesses. Yet, perhaps, the statesman would not be deterred by one or all of these charges, even if established beyond doubt, from encouraging Chinese immigration, were he certain that it brought men and women of whom or of whose children good Canadians could be made.

A glance at China and Chinese history would be useful if only to get rid of the idea that the 400,000,000 Chinamen are a huge swarm of repul- sive barbarians. From the nature of the case, China was sure to be Chinese necessa- either overpraised or too adversely criticised. She had attained a high or over-blamed. rily over-praised civilization when Europe was savage. When Marco Polo and other early travellers visited the Middle Kingdom, its roads and canals must have struck them as furnishing a wonderful contrast to the highways of com- merce at home. The theory of the government of China and of its social organization would naturally appeal to superficial but sympathetic minds such as Voltaire's, while the perfection of its despotism would blind the glance of men like Montesquieu to some excellent things of which it may fairly boast. It is remarkable that those who know the country best speak most favorably of its inhabitants. But even the pages of the eulo- gist cannot hide the stagnation which prevails, the dwarfing effects of an Palpable blots in indurated self-complacency, the evil growths of over-population, the tion, Chinese civiliza- treachery and cruelty, the want of respect for human life, the absence of natural affection in one direction, side by side with family devotion in another. But few blots, however, can be pointed out as disfiguring Chinese civilization, the counterpart of which cannot be found, at one time or another, in great European races and nations.

To say that the Mandarins are materialists is true; to say that the people are sunk in the grossest superstition is equally true; but one has not to go to the East to find materialists, and we have seen superstitious nations grow into states in which every charm of civic life and heroic

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Let western ideas virtue was found. The character of the Chinese merchant, held so uni- be engrafted on China, and she may have a bril- liant future.

versally high ; the industry and frugal virtues of his poorer countrymen, also universally admitted ; a system of government in which education and scholarship hold a place they hold nowhere else, a place they have held for nearly 3,000 years ; these and many other things mentioned by travellers and historians-and which set the Chinese in the front of Asiatic races-might suggest the conclusion that let but a few western ideas obtain a strong footing in China and the Chinese people would have a brilliant future. If so, it might follow that a permanent Chinese immi- gration would be desirable, because sure to lose those characteristics which now repel.

If so, a Chinese immigration might be useful.

Origin of the pig-tail.

Chinese history the archetype of There is much in the past and present of China to account for the very Chinese character. qualities which make the modern Chinaman singular. Nothing is pro- bably to the popular mind considered so characteristic of the Chinaman as the queue-the pig-tail. What surprises the thoughtful is that he won't give it up. Yet, that he is not without plasticity the queue itself proves, for it was imposed on him a few hundred years ago by an intrusive dynasty .* It is a badge of conquest. On the other hand an in- vincible conservatism is shown by the fact that the same power could not prevail on Chinamen of the better class not to torture the feet of their daughters into deformity.

Confucius, who has made so profound an impression on the Chinese onfucius. nation, stands out as one of the three or four grandest men of the world. By giving so much importance to ceremonies killed originality. Yet, by setting so much store by ceremonies he is probably in great part responsible for the stationariness of China, and by giving the weight of his authority, example and earnest injunction to the worship of ancestors, he undoubtedly contributed to make the modern Chinaman unwilling to live permanently, or to die, out of the Flowery Land. One of the charges most frequently brought against the Chinaman is that he does not come Reason why Chinese do not -worship of ancestors. to remain. The reason of this is but imperfectly understood. It is not emigrate to settle patriotism. It is the cult of the worship of ancestors. Not only does a Chinaman worship his ancestors ; he expects himself to be worshipped, t and it is this desire to be worshipped which causes the Chinaman before he leaves for other lands, to make an agreement that if he dies his ashes shall be taken back to his province. One of the reasons why he returns

* When the Manchus captured Leaouyang the townspeople who were spared recognized the authority of the conqueror and shaved their heads. This is the first occasion on which the 'pig-tail' is distinctly referred to. Henceforth, it became compulsory on all who wished to escape death, to shave their heads on the approach of the Manchus .- Boulger's History of China, vol. II., p. 209.

t "In some portions of the Empire convicts are sent out from prison each morning to beg their daily bread. At the small market town of Yun-poo which is in the vicinity of Canton, a convict from Nankin used to find employment either as a porter, or a Sedan-chair bearer, or as a farm laborer. He was very anxious to be permitted to return to Nankin to die there, so as to receive the sacred rites of ancestral worship from his posterity."-Gray's China, vol. I., p. 70.

WORSHIP OF ANCESTORS.

at intervals undoubtedly is that he may worship at an ancestral grave himself.

This superstition which is hardly worthy of the name of the noblest of Ancestral worship human sentiments-filial piety-has important bearings on the future of otism. kills a large patri- the Chinese race. It keeps province apart from province, for it is not to China but to the confines of an ancestral graveyard that the Chinaman wishes to go home. The rise of a real patriotism, with all its ennobling influence is hindered, and for those who would desire (and there are some who would) a large and permanent Chinese immigration, it imposes a long interval between the present and the consummation of their hopes. For Unlessthe Chinese grant that the Chinaman is more plastic than he seems, he does not remain undergo a radical character should sufficiently long in any foreign country to give his plasticity a chance. change they can- not become per- manent settlers. It is hard to deal seriously with those who complain that he will not stay, for the very same persons will grow querulous over the fact that he is here ; and several seemed even to regret that he insisted on taking his ashes out of this continent, as though as they could not have a living Chinaman en permanence, a dead one was better than nothing.

The evidence from books is that this ancestral worship is often gone Ancestral worship through with heartless levity ; that a coffin of a father will sometimes be often gone through heart- lessly. exposed to the weather for months ; yet had one dared to touch an exposed limb a whole village would rise. A broad generalization cannot be made See Medhurst, from a few circumstances. One of the reasons why Chinese criminals like pp. 124, 125. to emigrate is because if they commit crime away from China and are convicted, only themselves will have to bear the penalty, whereas in China the father and mother are liable to be punished for the misconduct of their children. Mr. Medhurst says :

" This duty, although called filial piety, must be considered more as a general rule of conduct than as the expression of the sentiment of affec- tion ; it lives in their most ancient annals and is enforced by their earliest and greatest philosophers. It has survived dynasties and revolutions, and to day it is the most powerful principle in the Chinese constitution. It is sanctioned by law and public opinion."

We had intended at the close of this paper in which we reflect whatever . is said, bad and good about the Chinese, by western travellers, to call a witness for them in the person of Colonel Tcheng-Ki-Tong, military attaché to the Chinese Embassy at Paris, and to give his remarks on the A Chinese witness various points concerning which Europeans had either written with sur- ancestors. on the worship of prise or condemnation. But it will perhaps be convenient to quote here one or two of his observations on the worship of ancestors, which he Revue des deux Mondes, June truly calls the base of the moral life of China. In a society like that of 15th, 1884, p. 824. Europe he thinks that perhaps he should apologize for the Chinese view of the constitution of the family, which is considered as made up of the living members, and of the souls of those of its members who are dead.

" The dead are not forgotten." To forget the dead-this belongs to the The dead are not West, where, as a rule, people know nothing of their ancestors beyond China. forgotten in three generations. The ancestors call themselves the old people (les

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

vieux). Poor old people! he cries, in fact less cherished than the antique European method tapestry which decorates the sumptuous staircase of a new mansion. He of honoring the dead. had visited cemeteries and had cursed the immortelles hung around- those flowers without perfume and without freshness, which do not wither and which symbolize the hypocrisy of a pretended remembrance. These immortelles dispense with the necessity of returning. But roses-they would only live for a morning. He then contrasts the way the Chinese treat their dead. " We carry our dead to the fields, to the hills which surround the towns and cities, as high up, as near heaven as possible, and the tombs which we raise to our 'old people' will remain there in the The Chinese carry midst of immortal nature for ever. The dead sleep in peace!" He proceeds their dead to the to relate how the ceremonial worship of ancestors takes place twice each choicest spots of field or hill. year, in the Spring time and Autumn, how it is instinct with grati- tude and clothed with solemnity, how families are thus drawn together, how the temple of the ancestors of families of consequence is suff- ciently large to have apartments for those members who do not dwell in the same town, how these temples raised in the midst of the country sometimes serve during summer as rural villas, how families frequently Temples raised to ancestors. have reunions there, as on the occasion of a marriage or at the period of the examinations. "All the joys of the family are thus celebrated in the family, in the midst of its ancestors, and as it were at the home of absent ones who are not forgotten."

There is another thing about which we think there is much misconcep- tion, and which, while possessing attractive and useful features, has an evil influence, politically and otherwise-we mean the mode adopted by the Chinese Government to encourage education. Perhaps it would be more correct to describe it as the mode of recruiting the public service. Education in China. Education is made the only avenue to all posts of honor and import- ance. This has the excellent consequence that education is spread abroad among the male population. It is to the glory of China that when the mass of the English and Irish people could not read, much less write their names, education was widely diffused in the Ancient Empire, where, as witnesses before the Joint Committee testified, and as the Abbé Huc noted in 1854, all Chinamen with rare exceptions can read and write. "Primary education," says the Abbé, " penetrates even the floating dwellings which Huc, vol. i., p. 122. in thousands cover the rivers, lakes and canals of the Celestial Empire." Gray, vol. i., p. 167. Nor is the education of women so much neglected as so many suppose. In the south of China seminaries for the board and education of young ladies are numerous. We shall see that there are women of considerable culture who devote themselves to music, and remind us of a class of Greek girls to which Pericles owed his beautiful and inspiring companion. When Su Tung P'o was banished for crossing the Emperor's will, we read that his exile was shared by the lovely and accomplished girl " Morning Clouds," who sweetened his banishment and inspired those songs which to-day are sung by those who could not name his persecutor. But, to return to the

Education long widely diffused in China.

Women of con- siderablec ul ure.

SYSTEM OF EDUCATION.

examinations. They make every student a place-hunter from his youth; and as taking a good degree is pretty certain to secure suc- cess in life, this is hailed as a great achievement would be in other lands. Though there is no system of national education and no course of study is prescribed by the Government, the curriculum is the same ; and at the most critical period of mental growth a profound, Hue, vol. i., p. 121. not to say slavish, admiration for the wise men of ancient times is incul- cated. The books of these men are supposed to be immeasurably superior to anything later times could produce. Such teaching would of itself destroy Mental independ- ence destroyed. mental independence ; but when we remember that the more brilliant the mind, the more certain is it to look to high government employ, can we wonder that the literati of China originate nothing? The education Gray, vol. i., p. 170. System of education. ' consists in the study of moral philosophy and of an unscientific past, and the metaphysical speculations are, as might be expected, exceed- ingly crude. The Four Shoos play an important part in Chinese educa- tion. In the first of these, the Lun-Yu, we have digested conversations between Confucius and his disciples ; the Ta-Heo is the great learning ; the third, the Chung-Yung, or doctrine of the mean; and in these three we have a record of the doctrines and sayings of Confucius by his disciples. The fourth consists of the works of Mencius. The object of all four works is to teach men to be virtuous, that they may successfully discharge their political and social duties. When the student has mastered the Four Shoos he studies the classic on Filial Piety. He then enters on a study Thestudent passes. of the Five-King, which embraces cosmology, ancient history, poetry, and Shoos to the classic from the Four etiquette. Confucius attached, it is said, great importance to the She- on Filial Piety. King (3), a collection of poems which he thought fitted to mould the national character. The fourth-the Le-Ke, or record of rites-deals The Le-Ke. with national ceremonial, and the knowledge and practice of its teachings are thought essential to social order and the promotion of virtue. The fifth-Ch'un Ts'ew, or Spring and Autumn-is a history of his own times and of several reigns preceding it. When the student has gone through a course of general literature he is supposed to be fit to pass an examination for the first degree, corresponding to our B.A .- examina- Examinations for- the firstdegree held throughout China twice in every three years. For second, or M. tions for which are held throughout the Empire twice in every three years. For the second, or what may be called the M.A. degree, examinations are held once in every three years. The qualification for obtaining this degree A. degree exami- is to write two essays, compose a poem of twelve lines, recite or write from nations once every three years. memory a portion of the Sacred Edict. Two or three days afterwards the names of the successful candidates are classified according to merit and Further trials of posted. There are a half a dozen further trials of strength in the compo- strength. sition of essays and poems, and on the final day out of ten thousand can- didates perhaps not more than one hundred remain. We saw the president of a club in San Francisco, who told us that when he was examined 12,000 competed, of whom 11,940 went back with sorrowful hearts.

At a glance all this seems most commendable. But remember that of the system.

Evils of the

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Scope for favorit- ism and abuse.

six, ten or twelve thousand who go up, each one has during the plastic period of life had his mind fixed on a government place. Are the sixty who get their degree highly educated after the standard of China ? Per- haps far better men-for only sixty can be chosen-have been rejected. Here, there is at once seen to be scope for favoritism and abuse. There must necessarily be injustice. It is conceivable that of ten thousand two thousand would come fully up to a fair standard of merit. Is there nothing more behind ?

Corruprion must from the nature of

such a system.

A moment's reflection must convince anyone familiar with human na- the case bore into ture that corruption would bore into such an educational system. In 1869, Ting-ta-jen, the Governor of the province of Kiang-su, a man of great Memorial of Ting- ta-jen. authority and position, in a memorial published in the Pekin Gazette, referring to the results of the present public examination system, says :

"To speak, for example, of the one province of Kiang-su, of the office of Tau-tai, there are only two or three vacancies which can be filled apart from the throne. Of the offices of Chih-fu, Chih-Chow, Chih-hien, Tung- chih, Tung-pau, only some tens can thus be filled, while there are about sixty or seventy men expectants of Tau-tai, and more than a thousand for the other offices. But to put a thousand and more in several tens of offices must be the work certainly of a distant and undetermined future .. Even in the selection, according to the order of time, and the fulfilment of requirements for temporary posts, unless it be those who have been expectants for more than ten years, none can get a single year's office. Those who are nimble-footed and manage to advance sooner, must either be clever in boring and scheming their way, or have friends in a position Tendency to put a class unreliable and sordid into office. to help them forward. How can such a class, by nature unreliable and sordid, be expected to cherish the people ? Supposing that, in the course of ten or more years, they obtain one year's office as a substitute, out of this one year must come the expenses of the preceding ten and more years for clothes and food, the cost of maintaining a family, and returning favors ; and besides, in this one year of temporary office, provision must be made for the future. To place dogs and sheep before a hungry tiger, and expect him not to seize and eat them, although you should make a show of preventing him with a stout bow and poisoned arrows, would cer- Williamson, vol. i., tainly be to expect an impossibility. And so these men, having no fixed source of income, and consequently no fixed purpose of heart, are not simply villains ; their very penury is the reason of their becoming so."

In a short term of office favors must be returned and provision made for the future.

p. 6.

Magistracies sold.

See Boulger's History of China. vol. iii., p. 323.

Why Mandarins are afraid of western civiliza- tion.

This testimony is true of the whole Empire. Poverty on the part of the Government has led to the disposal of magistracies not by competition but for money. Boulger, who takes a very hopeful view of China, and who is the latest and not the least partial of Chinese historians, says of that country thirty years ago that corruption of the public service had alienated the people ; that justice was not to be found-to the rich it was knocked down to the highest bidder; that offices were sold to men who had never passed an examination and who were wholly illiterate ; that the value of office was the means to extortion. Hence the evils, the squeezing of Man- darins, and the sale of justice which strike every traveller and fills the most hopeful and the best-intentioned with despair. Hence, too, suggests the Rev.

CORRUPTION. SALE OF OFFICES.

Alexander Williamson, "their apprehension of the advance of European civilization. These," he cries, "are the literati who stir up the common people against missionaries and foreigners. These are the men who with the threat of reporting them to the Mandarins, annoy and squeeze Chris- tian converts and such native merchants as may be seeking to introduce improvements."

The scholar who attains the second degree, or M. A., is qualified for A man of letters. any office. There are two degrees yet to which only an M.A. may aspire. Once in three years the ambitious repair to Pekin to be examined by the How entrance is Doctors of the Hanlin College. Three hundred are elected out of some College, the nur- gained to Hanlin ten thousand; the three hundred are again examined in the presence sery of ministers of state. of the Emperor and a few chosen to fill up the vacancies in the college, whence the ministers and other high officers of state, are, as a rule, recruited.

When Khan Mangu, the brother of the great Kublai, asked what was Meaning of "a understood by "a man of letters," and added : " Are there any other than man of letters." doctors ?" " A man of letters," replied a Chinese servant, "is a man capable of settling all the difficulties which are to be met with in the task Mailla quoted by of government, and a doctor cannot be compared with him." The ladder p. 499. Boulger, vol. i., to statesmanship has been hurriedly described ; and just, as with ourselves, up to a recent period the educated man was he who had given his days and nights to the Latin and Greek classics, so in China, "the man of The man of edu- cation and culture in China. letters," the right hand of Empire, is he who has devoted himself to the fathers of Chinese thought and to the writings of the literary giants who flourished in the Augustan age of the Sungs.

As we might expect the gallant and scholarly Mandarin before quoted sees nothing but good in the Chinese system of securing the best and most cultured minds for the higher offices of the state, and theoretically securing the ablest and most instructed attainable for all posts. Nor will his remarks be less instructive if the reader notes the evidences of that Chinese self- self-complacency which is a national characteristic, the result of centuries of isolation from western countries, and early preeminence and superior civilization, as regards the tribes and nations around. Only indomit- able belief in their own superior civilization could give the Chinese the force to cling to their Eastern costume and all their Eastern habits in the midst of a population to whom they know such things are offensive.

In this man, highly educated, who has lived and travelled much in Eu- rope, we see the self-complacency of his countrymen and their contempt for western methods. After ten years study of Christendom, democracy fills Democracy fills him with contempt. He points out that in China there are four classes scholar with con- the Chinese of citizens : the literati, the agriculturists, manufacturers and traders. tempt. The literati occupy the first rank as the class which thinks. The agri- culturists come next, and the manufacturers stand third. But the two first are the classes esteemed and honored. All four, however, are permitted to take part in the public examinations which confer rank. This right,

complacency.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

ne truly says, is as democratic as any principle which exists in any part of the world, and he is astonished it has not been adopted in western countries " where the immortal principles (the rights of man) have not yet ensured the best of governments or the least imperfect social state." He then points out that the degree of B. A., or that of Doctor, or a licentiate's degree does not merely indicate the extent of knowledge of its possessor ; these degrees are titles to which rights and privileges are attached. He is annoyed at the little respect paid to University degrees in Europe, and, as we have already indicated, he seems at first sight to have the best of it.

" After ten years' residence, after much study, I ask myself what prin- ciple there is in the institutions of the western world really worthy to be called democratic or liberal ? I see none, and no one has shown me one so thoroughly democratic as the right of admission of all the citizens to the examinations which confer rank. People speak much of universal suffrage, but it is a weather-cock which turns to every point of the com- pass (une rose des vents). It is a principle without principles ; and on a given day or hour to suppose that it can manifest itself as by a decree is to form a curious estimate of public opinion. Strange thing! One could not propose the election of academicians by universal suffrage with- out becoming ridiculous, but legislators are chosen by it. I believe it is more difficult to choose good legislators than good academicians.

What are we to think ? * * If you are poor, having no other riches than an honorable name and the ambition to bear it worthily, can you by study alone and scholastic achievements, assure yourself a name and place in the functions of the state ? Can you raise yourself by the credit of your knowledge alone ? Can you by it conquer a single right ? Can you obtain by it alone honor and power? In China, yes ; in Europe, no.

" It is not without reason then that I pretend that our customs are more liberal, more just and more salutary ; for the more instructed are the most wise, and these are the ambitious men who (in Europe) disturb the public peace. Require before a man can fill the first offices of gov- ernment the reputation of the highest literary merit, as for great military positions you demand tried bravery, honor, knowledge of the art of war, and you will suppress those domestic troubles which open the doors of ministers of state to intrigue and injustice. Here is the secret of the stability of our peaceful Empire." It will be observed that it seems to him an advantage that the Chinese system puts an imperial collar round the scholar's neck. He fails, too, to see that a man of genius in modern times has only to achieve to reap his reward.

He proceeds to say that China has no system of public education. "Our government understands liberty better than certain western coun- tries where education is compulsory, without directing it to any specific end. Government has no control but on the examinations. The candi- dates are submitted but to a single law, the most tyrannical of all, they must know."

DEMOCRATIC PRINCIPLE IN CHINA.

Having described the Chinese system of education he tells us the Contrast between life of a lettre is passed in examinations. He adds with scorn ted men in the life of educa- China and that " at twenty in Europe the time has arrived for most to put Europe. their studies on one side and begin to forget them. We, on the other hand, ambition a new grade to which will correspond an increase of honor and fortune. The Chinese official hierarchy is not founded on seniority but on merit. * * No one thinks in China of despising a young chief of a bureau because the chief is necessarily more capable than the sub-chief. Power and place by seniority is a mistake ; it is not the bald head which makes merit, and the young attachés have shown me the inefficiency of a system of seniority so that I can appreciate the wisdom of our government in suppressing the cause."

The ovation which awaits the successful student having been described, we are told that in China as well as in Europe the voice of the people Vox populi, is the voice of God, and this voice is heard in the councils of state when vox dei. necessary. "The people are in fact represented by the literati who go from the provinces to the capital ; and although they have no official title they have the right to address, in the name of the people, requests in which they lay bare things necessary to be done. *

* If," says this astute Asiatic, "China ever should change. her political customs and adopt one of the modes of national representation in vogue with western peoples, mindful of her traditionary homage to scholarship, she will give the right to vote only to those who shall have distinguished themselves by study and probity."

One of the consequences of this system, aided by the determined isolation to which China has been for thousands of years devoted, is to produce men pedantry for who mistake pedantry for statesmanship. The monopoly of trade with China granted by Royal Charter to the East India Company expired in April, 1834, and the Chinese authorities had all their feathers of self- complacent arrogance ruffled when they learnt that the merchants of Canton instead of being the agents and representatives of a company were entitled to the direct protection of a remote potentate. Their policy towards foreigners became at onceone of intensified and unqualified hostility. The opium traffic was made the subject of diplomatic controversy and Boulger, vol. iii., Chinese hostility, the Mandarins doing what has been often done in western p. 103. countries in regard to contraband luxuries, keeping most of the confis- Was the first cated drug. But all foreign traffic was aimed at-a traffic hated in opium war? foreign war an Pekin and which but for the corruption of the Mandarins would never Boulger, vol. iii., have been allowed to find a footing. Ultimately war broke out. It is pp. 24, 38. known as the Opium War, but Boulger makes out a strong case for the theory that the Chinese were not so much opposed to opium as to foreign intercourse, and that the war was really one for a right to trade with China.

Among the prominent men of the day was Commissioner Lin, and it is Commissioner laughable to read his moral speeches. One of his class, with English war Lin.

Literati repre- sent the people.

If China should adopt repre- sentative govern- - ment she will have an educa- tional test.

System produces men who mistake statesmanship.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Moral pyrotech- nics in diplomacy and war. ships within view, wrote to his master that the barbarians required to be brought, as religious people amongst ourselves would say, into Boulger, vol. ifi .. p. 315. a more spiritual frame of mind. Speaking of Lin, Boulger says : "He has been called a statesman, but the claim will not be allowed at the bar of history. He was rather a typical representative of the order of What the literati consider states- manship. literary officials to which he belonged. Statesmanship is in their eyes the carrying out of political plans in strict obedience to a groove of action laid down in antiquity, and the able man is he who can most eloquently enunciate great moral truths, which he probably does not carry out in his own life, and which without practice and the demonstration of vigor will avail but slightly to keep an Empire together." Keshen who, after Lin's How to deal with the obstinate English. disgrace succeeded him at Canton, wrote to the Emperor of the obstinate English : "It becomes necessary to soothe and admonish them with sacred Boulger, vol. iii., p. 159. instruction, so as to cause them to change their mien, and purify their hearts." Since the pills against earthquakes sold by Addison's quack there has been nothing like this. On the ruin of Keshen his property was confiscated, and his great wealth showed how he had improved his oppor- Mandarin corrup- tunities after the true Mandarin fashion. In the inventory we find after 270,000 taels weight of gold, 3,400,000 taels weight* of sycee silver, and 2,000,000 taels weight of foreign money, come four pawnshops in Pechihli, two at Moukden ; eighty-four banking houses ; together with pearls, silks, clocks, precious stones, and what not.

tion.

· See note Boulger, vol. iii., p. 159. .

The literati.

Giles' Historic China, pp. 89, 106, 108.

Edinburgh Re- view for October, 1884.

Legge's Chinese classics, vol. iv., parts 1 and 2.

Among the literati we find those who can write with true humor and quiet satire. They compose poetry, and with respect to a statement made by a reviewer of Boulger's history that the stagnation of China is due to the fact that the Chinese are without imagination one has only to read their literature to see they have fancy. That the humblest individual in the Empire, provided his record is unsoiled, may aspireto the highest position short of the throne is undoubtedly a most democratic principle, and the feeling that any office is open to their children provided they have suffi- cient genius and industry, goes far to reconcile the Chinese to a yoke which yet has proved sufficiently galling to lead to outbreaks and rebellions.

There is, too, this qualification to official tyranny. Riots inevitably follow an attempt to stretch power too far. A violent demonstration in a district and the Mandarin is recalled and it may be ruined. Certainly for a time his career is checked.

Educational sys- tem fatal to a real public opinion.

Pursuing litera- 'ture for ulterior · ends corrupting.

The worst effects of this system of education have not been indicated. It dries up a fruitful source from which elevating national impulses might come. It is fatal to the existence of a real public opinion. It deprives the people, in times of oppression, of their only chance of a great and effective champion. The robber makes friends with the watch dogs by feeding them. There is something, as history shows, specially corrupting in pursuing literature for ulterior ends. The most ennobling of all things when followed for its own sake, where it is made the thrall of power or

Tael : weight, 1} oz. avoirdupois.

THE CHINESE PROBLEM.

the tool of ambition, character tends to the nadir of degradation. The Chinese Moreover the Mandarins are all badly paid and this of itself would lead to Empire. grave scandals. Mr. Boulger says :

sented by the Chinese Empire.

"The Chinese Empire presents for our consideration one of the most Problem pre- complicated of existing problems ; and the subject is of growing rather than waning importance. In dealing with its history we are not discuss- ing the fortune of some Empire that has long disappeared, nor are we seeking to discern the future of a race which has lost or forgotten the capacity of government ; but we are treating of a state and a people that apparently were never, during the long course of their national existence more powerful and flourishing than they are at this very day."

Travellers do not support this roseate view. They tell us that Mandarin Sirr, vol. i., p. 264 .. corruption has plunged China in anarchy and misery. Mr. Boulger him- Gray, vol. i., pp. self says, that the governing classes on the eve of the first foreign war 26, 27. appealed to "national instincts that had long beem dormant, because consistently discouraged." Even the truculence of the Chinese to foreign- Williamson, vol. i. ers seems to be instigated by those who repress their aspirations after pp. 163, 165. a larger life.

It would be impossible that a system by which in many cases an educational test is necessarily applied should not produce remarkable men. As a fact no period of Chinese history has been without some striking characters, and there have been not a few really noble ones. The great Kublai owed much of his success to his Chinese secretary Yaochu, who became his constant companion and favorite minister. This eminent and up- right Chinese scholar had been tutor to the young prince, who learned from The duties of a him wise principles of government and often received from him sage ad- princc. Boulger, vol. i., vice and fruitful suggestion. Yaochu, in reply to his royal pupil, summed p. 500. up the duties of a prince in eight maxims : " Regulate your household ; study the sciences ; honor the sages ; cherish your parents ; revere hea- ven ; love the people ; incline yourself to good deeds ; and keep flatterers at a distance."

There is no newspaper press. The Pekin Gazette is what its name im- Gray, vol. i., pp. ports. When we remember that this Court Circular and government record 177-182. Giles' Historic has been in existence since the closing years of the ninth century, long China, p. 59. before the art of printing was known in Europe, before the dawn of the renaissance, when great warriors and kings could not write their names, and the monks of Iona were copying the works of the Venerable Bede, it The Chinese peo- ple kept in com- plete ignorance of passing events. is surprising that no popular newspapers have arisen. The people are kept in complete ignorance of passing events. Defeats, when the Chinese are de- feated, are recounted as victories. True, ina country abounding in newspapers we have seen the same thing take place. All that was necessary was for the government to seize the telegraph, supervise the post, and exclude foreign newspapers. In each provincial capital in China a Court Circular is published daily, which contains the names of visitors to the viceroy's palace on the previous day. Under these circumstances one is not sur- prised to learn that the news-letter, which flourished in England before Gray, vol.i., p. 179.

China at every period has pro- duced remarkable- men.

An eminent and upright minister.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Boulger, vol. iii., pp. 499-512. the halcyon days of journalism, plays an important part in China. But the writers are, it seems, untrustworthy. The battle of Chan-chia-wan Chinese treachery where, according toan arrangement with Mr. (afterwards Sir) Henry Parkes, and misrepresen- tation, an amicable settlement was to take place, but where with Chinese treachery it was determined to make another stand to bar the hated foreigner from Pekin ; where the French under General Montauban (afterwards Count Palakao) having assailed vigorously the Chinese left, and the English under Sir Hope Grant, having pressed their right, and Probyn's horse having routed a large body of mounted Tartars, the Chinese soldiers gave way before the advance of the infantry with the Sikhs in front,- describing this battle, in which there had in truth been stubborn fighting on the part of the beaten army, one of the news-letters said the English and French had been thoroughly whipped ; "out of every ten men, eight or nine were killed." A most ludicrous and lying travesty is given of the march on Pekin. Prince Tseng is delighted that the " turbulent barba- rians" have entered the Yuen-ming-yuen palace and issues orders to the garrison of Pekin to kill them all. Five thousand are slain. Five thousand escape. But they meet Prince Tseng's army. A battle and four thousand turbulent barbarians killed. One thousand taken alive. "The prince put out the eyes of 200 of the most able-bodied, or else cut off their noses." The writer of course declares that the statement that the Emperor and his ministers had fled is a falsehood.

Chinese prowess à la Falstaff.

The Chinese in San Francisco have advanced beyond their countrymen in the Flowery Land. They have two newspapers printed in Chinese.

How grievances are ventilated.

Placards are resorted to as a means of ventilating grievances. Sometimes an oppressed individual will sit near the door of his oppressor and proclaim his wrongs to the passing world. This custom is common in India and was up to a century ago practised among the Keltic peoples of Europe.

Such local public opinion as exists in China created by the "literary and gentry."

Jan. 10th, 1871.

Under such conditions as we have already indicated there can be no na- tional public opinion. Such local public opinion as exists is the creation of the class of "literary and gentry," which stands midway between an army of interested officials and the dim masses. This middle class is composed of those who have been admitted to the public examinations and have drawn blanks. Mr. Low, writing thirteen years ago from the United States Legation at Pekin to his Government, says that they play a useful part by advising the lower classes and managing local concerns for the Government.

Mr. Low on this public opinion.

" This class creates the public opinion of the country which exercises a controlling influence over the officials, and is usually powerful enough to thwart the intentions and nullify the action of the officers from the Em- peror down, whenever popular rights are in danger of being invaded or the people unduly oppressed. So powerful is the influence of the literati that all officials endeavor to conform their action to the popular will, and in this view the Government of China is essentially democratic in practice."

Colonel Tong, who proclaims himself, with a sneer, an admirer of the European newspaper, says it helps to pass the time agreeably. The in-

NO LIBERTY OF PRESS.

fluence of newspapers on the public mind he does not rate high. If people Revue des deux would always read the same newspaper it would be different. The news- 1884, p. 606. paper tells us what has taken place when it is well informed ; it sometimes risks stating what has not happened, "but under all reserve." This is, perhaps, the only interesting thing in the paper, and to-morrow it will be denied. The world in which the newspaper preaches is impalpable (insai- sissable), capricious. What pleases it to-day will displease it to-morrow. Watch the infatuated people who read journal after journal and then cry : " There's nothing in the newspapers ! " As for the serious articles they are never read except by their authors. The newspaper, the colonel says, is an institution very useful, very precious for those who write.

With great complacency he points out that no newspapers, such as No liberty of the those published where there is absolute freedom of the press, exist in press. China ; and he adds : " there are great Empires even in Europe where this liberty is not complete." But he contends that though China has not liberty of the press she has a public opinion.

The Book of Odes (the She-King) edited by Confucius is, according to the Confucius' Book essayist, the origin of the journal in China. The sovereigns of China have of verses. ;always been kept informed of the state of public opinion, with reference to the acts of their government. For centuries the Council of Censors has existed. The duty of this council is to make the sovereign aware of the state of public opinion in the various parts of the Empire, and its reports are a journal whose readers are the Emperor and the high officers of state. These reports have latterly appeared in the Pekin Gazette.

" Liberty of the press does not exist in China because it would be contrary to the idea we have of the character of historical truth. For us liberty of the press Reason why there is no contemporary history. History deals with the annals of does not exist in China, dynasties, and so long as the same dynasty occupies the throne, it is not permitted to publish a history of it. The history is written by a Council of Literati. * * It can readily be understood that it is necessary to keep these documents secret, in order that they may be a faithful repro- duction of the truth."

In the innocence of his heart he considers that this Council of Censors, which is composed of the most renowned among the literati, who are entitled to say everything they desire, to take note even of rumors, realizes the ideal after which the European journalist strives in vain.

" The Official Gazette is, as a rule, seen only in official circles. The people are absolutely ignorant of what passes in the political world."

Since the opening of the ports attempts had been made to found journals on the European plan, and the example was followed in the provinces. But local journalism died a violent death, and no one has attempted to give it a resurrection. Foreigners continue to print newspapers, in Chinese. The most widely read of these are published, the one at Shanghai, the other at Hong-Kong.

There is, the colonel tells us, another kind of journal. The Chinese are accustomed to write their impressions of travel, of important events and

Mondes, June 1st,

A Chinaman on the influence of newspapers.

Futile attempts to establish local journals.

Private journals.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Anything political the like. But if in doing so they deal with political questions, their im- cannot be publish- ed while the dy- nasty under which it was written rumains. pressions, while the dynasty under which they are written is on the throne, cannot be published. Though they have no organ of opinion, con- Both conserva- tives and demo- crats in China. servatives and democrats are found in China ; the partisans of the old traditions who would on no account make concessions to the spirit of innovation, and those who though they could never sympathize with western democracy, desire to serve the popular interest in such a manner that the people may reap some benefit.

Revue des deux Mondes, June 1st, p. 611.

Most instructive is it to note the mental attitude towards European institutions of this highly cultivated Chinaman. It seems to him an excellent thing that in the Empire of which he is an officer there is no liberty of the press.

Railway got rid of.

Giles, p. 121.

The railway laid down between Shanghai and Wusung was bought by the Chinese Government only that it might be got rid of. Mr. Giles, in his book "Historic China," gives for this course reasons which are wholly at fault. The real reason is given by Colonel Tong in the Rerue des deux Mondes :

Why railways have not succeed- ed in China.

The railway goes straight on and would disturb the tombs of ancestors.

"The railway has not succeeded, although it is a wonderful mode of tra- velling. But however marvellous it may be, is it useful ? Up to the present, no. Therefore it has not been undertaken. Moreover the execution of such a work would greatly disturb our customs. We hold above every- thing to the traditions of the family, and among them there does not exist one more dear than the worship of ancestors, and respect for their tombs. The locomotive overturns everything in its course ; it has neither heart nor soul ; it passes like a hurricane. Our people are not, therefore, of a mind to be invaded by the iron horse ; and in truth we cannot be very angry with them for this, seeing that the French Institute refused to believe in the project of Fulton for impelling ships by steam. You can con- vince only the mind, and it is better to demonstrate slowly by facts an important truth than by trampling on traditions and customs to violently introduce improvements."

Telegraph between London and Pekin. Giles' Historic China, p. 121. A telegraph line has, however, been laid between Pekin and Shanghai, and the electric link connects the capitals of the British and Chinese Empires. "For many years past," says Mr. Giles, " the Anglo-Saxon has been urging upon the Mongolian the necessity of moving more rapidly along the path Mr. Giles suggests of progress. It will be well, if in the coming centuries the Mongolian that the Chinaman may yet enter on the path of pro- gress with incon- venient speed. does not advance with more speed than is actually consistent with the worldly interests of the Anglo-Saxon." Without the aid of immigration, and in the face of internecine conflicts the Chinese doubled their numbers Double their num- in a century. In 1743 the population did not, according to Grosier, bers in a century. exceed 200,000,000 ; in 1842 according to Sacharoff it had reached 414,- 686,994. They have a power of work which surpasses that of any western race. They attach the greatest importance to marriage. As among the ancient Jews, the more children a Chinaman has, especially. male children, the more he is reverenced. The desire for male offspring is as strong as it was among the children of Judah when in their own land. This is a natural outcome of ancestral worship, which is the pivot

Desire for male children strong.

POSITION OF WOMEN.

on which Chinese civilization turns. Theoretical monogamists, they So called " second wives."

yet take what are loosely called " second wives," but who in reality are only concubines. The custom is for the parents to choose a See Gen, xxi., 21, and xxxviii., 6 ;

wife for their son, a custom which prevailed amongst the Jews. and Deut, xxii., 16. In cases where the wives are unsuitable, the husband soon proceeds Children of concubines to take a second or third " wife." The fact that the children' of legitimate. these concubines are legitimate renders the word polygamy not unsuit- able to describe the plurality of women attached to the couch. Until children are born the so-called second wife is no more than a servant in the house, and though motherhood improves her domestic status she has no legal rights. The position of women in China is deplorable ; the oppres- Position of women in China deplora- ble. sion of the system of concubinage, according to one traveller, is so great that affianced maidens have committed suicide to save themselves Gray, vol. i., pp. 208, 213. from marriage with its tyrannies and jealousies. The supernumerary " wives," though they may be sometimes more loved than the lady who is supreme in the household, are from the point of view of individual dignity in a far worse condition. They can be discarded ; sold ; and made the slaves of keepers of houses of prostitution.

Gray says : " I have often known it (plurality of women) to result in a Gray, vol. i., p. 185. husband expelling from his house and selling one of his wives upon the false accusation of a rival. Naturally, therefore, many Chinese ladies are opposed to matrimony. In one street alone-the Shap-pat-kan street in the Honam suburb of Canton-I knew four families in which there were ladies who positively refused to marry upon the ground that should their husbands become polygamists there would remain for them nothing but a life of unhappiness."

" Masters can sell female slaves either to other gentlemen as concu- Gray, vol.i., p. 243. bines, or to the proprietors of brothels as public prostitutes ; or they can, I apprehend, use them for the gratification of their own lusts. Occasion- ally a master marries one of his slaves. Indeed it is not unusual for a barren spouse, if she have an amiable and good-looking slave, to suggest to her husband that he should take the girl as a second wife."

This custom reminds one of Sarah's conduct. Finding herself growing old, she induced her lord to marry her bondmaid Hagar, in the hope that the divine promise of offspring might not fail of fulfilment. Archdeacon Gray tells how a lady named Tung Lou-shee, who resided in the western suburb of Canton, proposed that her husband should marry a young and prepossessing slave, although she herself had borne several children to him. Her own growing infirmities impelled her to this course. She stipulated that the husband and his youthful bride should live in a neighboring house. Now let us hear our Chinese witness on this subject :

" Woman is not in China the large factor in amusements that she is in Europe. She pays visits to her female friends ; she receives theirs in return. But from these meetings men are excluded. Thus one of the causes which excite and produce the pleasures of European fashionable. life, in a word the best part of western amusements is suppressed in the

4

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

organization of Chinese society. Men meet together frequently but no woman is present ; nor do they pay visits to ladies outside the circle of their families."

Colonel Tong defends the seclusion of women :

Defence of the seclusion of women. " You may compare political institutions, you cannot compare social customs ; these are like colors and matters of taste. That each one takes his pleasure where he finds it, is a proverb which entirely expresses my idea ; for in that case one always finds it where he takes it. But it is probable that our legislators, in diminishing as much as possible the Thinks the Chineselegislators in limiting the oc- number of opportunities for bringing men and women into each others presence, have acted in the interest of the family. There is a Chinese casions on which proverb which says, 'out of ten women, nine will be jealous.' On the other hand, men are not perfect. The peace of the family is therefore exposed to great danger.

the sexes can meet have acted in the interest of the family.

Remedy in case of adultery.

Better avoid catastrophes in married life.

" I have already said that Chinese institutions have but one end-to secure social peace; and in order to realize this, the single principle which appeared worthy of a paramount place was-to banish opportunities. This is not, perhaps, the highest bravery ; but among the brave how many fall ! The remedy in cases of adultery is summary execution without any process of law. It is the celebrated 'Tue-la !' expounded with so much cleverness by Alexandre Dumas fils. This right of a husband, where his dignity and authority are gravely compromised, I will certainly not dispute. Yet I follow the opinion of our sages, that it is better not to arrive at explanations which, however just the punishment may have been, spoil existence, for, as a rule, the man will have loved the woman who deceived him, and painful memories linger after the vengeance is past."

Divorce suits.

Many will sympathize with him in thinking that the remedy which consists in taking a barrister and an attorney to plead in public a cause which pride and magnanimity alike would prompt to hide from the coarse curiosity of the rabble, offers but poor consolation. This is to give a certifi- cate to the man in his character of betrayed husband, and nothing in the situation of the divorced excites compassion still less inspires respect.

"There is then only ennui and catastrophes in western society as it exists to-day. Personal experience, and what I have read, have thoroughly enlightened me on this subject. I do not, however, share the Does not believe most women de- ceive their hus- bands. opinion of a large number of Europeans who hold that most women deceive their husbands. This must be an exaggeration, although a lady once said to me it was the luxury of marriage, and that men accustomed themselves to their new existence with resignation. I am no longer Not astonished that marrlages are astonished that marriage is so rare (abandonné) ; it will soon be no more so rare in Europe. than a simple legal formality approved by the notary. This doubtless will not be a step in advance, but I grant it will be very amusing."

Women and wine classed by Confu- cius among dan- gerous things.

The colonel continues. The sacrifice they had imposed on themselves was in conformity with their opinion of the nature of man-man, who originally inclined to virtue, falls through evil example, and becomes soiled by " the dust of the world." Confucius classed among dangerous things woman and wine, and in Europe when a scandal arises, the first thought is "who is she ?" The West thus supplies at once the exemp'ification and the commentary : " Who is she ?" This is a phrase which would have no application in China.

FLOWER BOATS AND FEMALE MUSICIANS.

Mark the sense of superiority in the following paragraph :-

" I am certain that our manners and customs have never thus been closely observed, the tendency being to criticise them and to find them- Chinese, that is to say, extravagant. Their great defect, and every sin- cere mind will agree with me, is that they are too reasonable. Grown- up children are like those of tender years, they do not love the price of Chinese customs wisdom. This is the true character of western society : people are only too reason- ashamed to appear wise. They may desire to be so, but they follow bad able. examples as though to do so were a distinction. Such pleasure perverts ; it is playing with fire. We have remained serious. Ah! it is a strong expression : but who desires the end should take the means, and if we have happiness in the family, it is because we have suppressed tempta- tions. Gaiety suffers a little, but good morals are maintained. And then, now that travel is so easy-we have Europe."

He passes with a rapid pen over the dark exceptions to this idealized picture, and takes up the subject of flower-boats. He vehemently denies that these flower-boats are brothels,* as some travellers have described them. Archdeacon Gray gives the same account of them as Colonel Tong. One of the favorite pleasures of young China is to organize parties on the water, chiefly in the evening, in the company of women who Flower boats not accept their invitations. These women are not married ; they are musi- brothels. cians, and it is in this character they are invited on the flower-boats. On these boats is found everything that a gourmet could desire; and in the freshness of the evening, after a cup of tea deliciously perfumed, to listen to the sweet voice of a woman, accompanied by the tones of melo- dious instruments, is not considered in the light of a nocturnal debauch.

"These women are not regarded from the point of view of their morals; Female they may be in this respect what they wish ; that is their affair. They musicians. exercise their profession of musicians, or dames de compagnie-the name is of no importance ; and they are paid for the services they render as one pays a doctor or a barrister. They are generally instructed, and some of them are pretty. When they unite beauty to talent they are, of ·course, much sought after. The charm of their conversation is then as These women much appreciated as their musical talents, and numerous subjects are sometimes highly devised to submit to their judgment. Verses are addressed to them, and cultivated. not a few are sufficiently cultivated to reply to the rhythmic gallantries of the literati."

He declares that to say that in the meetings on these boats anything happens more than he has described is absolutely false. The female musi-

*" The most gaily decorated of all boats, which have curved fronts painted in arabesque, silken lanterns suspended from their roofs, whilst looking-glasses, pictures and verses of an amatory character inscribed on parti-colored paper, decorate their sides-are those sinks of iniquity called flower-boats. The wretched female inmates, bedizened in tawdry finery, tottering on their deformed feet, appear at the doors, and on the decks, beckoning the passers-by, trying to entice them by their allurements to enter. These degraded females are at an early age purchased from their parents *

* and are retained in bondage until worn out by disease and profligacy. *

* Their career of vice is usually commenced at ten years of age. * * In short, the profligacy practised in China unabashed by all classes is most appalling."-Sirr, vol. I., pp. 71-2.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

cians are often invited into private houses, to play after dinner. "If these musicians were women of bad character they would not be allowed to touch the threshold of our dwellings, still less come into the presence of our wives." The artistes also receive at their homes. You invite them to- receive you to dinner. You order the dinner and you bid your friends. Such usages, he says, show that the attractive part played by woman is highly appreciated in the Middle Kingdom. Everywhere the human heart is the same, and no doubt many romantic adventures lurk behind these invitations. " At first it was only the desire to hear the music, but. this music is so perfidious ! Confucius well characterized it as among dangerous things ; the sound of the voice lingers in the memory ; the invitations are renewed, and he who seeks fresh opportunities of meeting the lady cannot be altogether indifferent." One glides into romance, and pleasures which ruin and impoverish are practised in the China as well as in the Europe.

Early marriages and plurality of women in the house must tend to make population increase at an enormous ratio. If, therefore, foreign or intestine wars, or great calamities, such as epidemics, should not mercifully keep it down, the Chinese will have to break away beyond their own borders,. ancestral worship notwithstanding.

China might, however, support a much larger population than at present. if only she could find room for them. Her wealth is not half developed .. Coal which is found in every province in China was certainly used there- before it was known in Europe. Travellers of the 13th and 14th century tell how in far Cathay " black stones are dug out of the mountains, which stones burn when kindled and are used by many persons in preference to wood of which there is abundance."

Mr. Williamson, in his journey through Chih-li and Shan-si, describing the country beyond Chang-lang-chou and the Tai-yuen plain, says this last, is most fruitful, "abounding in fruit trees and cereals, and dotted over with cities and market towns. The mountains on either side of it, if the statements of the people are to be credited, abound in coal, iron, and lime, while other minerals probably exist." Surely, he cries, such a country cannot long remain closed to the outer world. The country which excites his enthusiasm has only 253 persons to the mile while its neighbor Chih-li has 475. The coal of Joong-chi-hien, after coming 700 li (about 233 miles) down stream to the great gate which divides Shen-si from Hanon, is sold from the boats at 250 cash per picul of 133 pounds, or about $5.55 a ton of 2,000 pounds. The hills in the south of Po-shan-hien are rich in minerals. "Coal-pits yielding extremly good coal are found in all directions." These hills are rich in the precious metals. But this is the common story of Williamson and others as regards every prov- ince. Yet little of this wealth is availed of. The Mandarins at one place said that if they permitted mining for gold they were afraid disturb- ances would occur among the miners. Chinamen of enterprise, full of

CHINESE DIGNITY AND ARROGANCE.

desire to work the mines, say that there would be no use in doing so as they would be sure to be squeezed by the Mandarins, and the art of Squeezing Man- squeezing is understood even in the palace of Pekin. darins.

For thousands of years the people have been kept in such ignorance The people kept that they imagine all other nations tributary to China. When British in ingnorance. men-of-war were moving up to dictate terms to " the son of heaven," those Explanation of whom curiosity impelled to the shores thought that they were bearing gance. Chinese arro- tribute. If one wants to plumb the full depths of Chinese self-complacency and arrogance, he should read the history of British relations with the Empire from 1834 until the Treaty of Nankin was signed. All the diplo- matic and warlike resources of the Empire were exhausted to prevent the humiliation of receiving an English Embassy on equal terms. Arrogance and dignity sometimes overlap each other. It is impossible not to admire the conduct of the Chinese Government, when a present was sent from Eng- Dignified conduct land to Minister Sung Tajin as a token of gratitude for his kindness to ernment. of Chinese Gov- Lord Macartney's Embassy. The present was returned to Canton with a haughty notification that a Minister of the great Emperor dare not so much as see a gift from a foreigner. This recalls Elizabeth's saying that her whelps should wear no other collar than hers. But it is nothing short of childish when Viceroy Loo writes to Lord Napier that the great Ministers of the Celestial Empire, "unless with regard to affairs of going to court and carrying tribute, or in consequence of imperial commands, Chinese Reposi- are not permitted to have interviews with outside barbarians." The 287. tory, vol. iii., p. Russian Embassy to Pekin, which is one of the most remarkable events in the early years of Taoukwang's reign, was treated on terms of inferior- ity. When Mr. (afterwards Sir James) Matheson demanded an inter- view with the Chinese officials and pressed the grievances of himself and his brother merchants on them, one of the Mandarins seized hold of him An insolent and passed the right hand round his neck, signifying that he deserved to Mandarin. be beheaded. Matheson promptly seized the Mandarin and subjected Boulger, vol. iii., him to the same process twice. Up to 1840 nothing had occurred p. 75. to shake the faith of the Chinese in themselves, and in the majesty Chinese self-com- of the great Emperor; nor even now do they find in our persons placency. and institutions any evidence of superiority. We have already seen that Chinese morals. a Chinaman of the highest culture, who has lived for ten years in Europe, and who speaks and writes with elegance the most delicate of continental tongues, regards Chinese as superior to European civilization.

The vilest crimes are laid at the door of the Chinese. The picture China of to-day given by every traveller is one that calls up the Lower Empire. The Empire. like the Lower Abbé David says sorrowfully, as he leaves Pekin, that the natural affec- tions do not seem to exist in Northern China, and the description of another Jesuit missionary, M. Huc-a description which leaves them without virtues and only makes them rich in vices-is well known. Wil- liamson, who travelled over great part of China, declares that he found them everywhere morally false and foul. One traveller after another

See M. E., p. 14, ap. A., pp. 194, 228, 259.

Abbé Huc leaves 1 the Chinese with hardly a virtue.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

The Englishman in China, p. 37. Williamson, vol. i., p. 7.

tells us they are detestable liars, and that dissimulation is universal. More than one insists that they are all thieves. Mr. Williamson says : " There is no truth in the country. Falsehood and chicanery are their hope and their weapons. Scheming has been reduced to a science ; deceit and lying placed upon the pedestal of ability and cleverness."

Sirr, evidently a man of high character, having praised the filial piety of the Chinese, says : " It is with reluctance we are forced to. state that we firmly believe there is not a nation yet known to exist on the face of the globe whose inhabitants are so habitually and systematic- ally profligate as the Chinese, vice of the most revolting kind being openly practised and indulged in without shame, or incurring punish- ment for the crime committed. Chastity is unknown among the lower orders of women, and is only preserved among the higher by rigid seclu- sion and the want of opportunity."

Sirr, vol, ii., p. 420.

This last statement would be a fair inference from Colonel Tong's. remarks already quoted.

Williamson, vol. i., p. 200.

Sirr continues : " The degradation of women in China is, alas, absolute and complete." " Often," says Williamson, describing agricultural sights,, " we were amused to see queer teams, viz .: a cow and ass, a mule and horses, and once or twice a woman, all drawing together ; the whole household had turned out, man and beast."

The evidence is overwhelming that they are cruel. But charitable. Cruel, ibid, p. 261. institutions do exist. Mr. Sirr gives a very full description of the Shanghai foundling hospital for female children, which is conducted evi- dently on the same principle as that one whose padded box received from the hands of their father the children of one of the most eloquent, if not, Charitable institutions. the greatest of writers, the author of "Emile." He also tells us of Sirr, vol. i., p. 218. an institution, which provides for the sick poor, and the burial of the unclaimed dead, which is supported by voluntary contributions. It has. branches throughout the city and suburbs. In the largest of these old and young are received. The young, when not too ill, are instructed by a. schoolmaster, who is paid out of the funds of the hospital. Some of the old and infirm receive out-door relief. The coffins are strongly and neatly put together, and on the lid is inscribed the name of the institution, with a number which indicates how many have been used. There is a. space, of course, left for the name. In 1848, 6,080 coffins had been Sirr, vol. i., p. 219 thus given away. Mr. Sirr says :

"The burial is conducted with decent propriety. The coffin and funeral might shame Christian England, when we reflect on the manner, ofttimes indecent in the extreme, in which our paupers are consigned to mother earth, when buried at the expense of the parish."

Gray, vol. ii., p. 49.

Archdeacon Gray tells us, that the foundling hospital at . Canton will accommodate 500 foundlings. It is supported out of the salt-tax. A wet nurse is prescribed for every two infants, but he says the children are badly fed, as the large death-rate incontestably proves.

HUMANITY AND INHUMANITY.

" As a rule the foundlings are female children. When they reach the age Gray, vol. ii .. p. 54.' of eight or ten months they are sold. The purchasers are supposed to be childless married people, or to be anxious to bring up the children to be wives for their sons."

He adds that the children are sometimes bought by persons who intend Gray, vol. ii., p. 51 to sell them at the age of puberty as slaves or for baser purposes. There is an asylum at Canton for lepers which will bold from 400 to 500 Asylums for lepers and for the · inmates ; and several anchorages are set apart on the river for boats to blind. accommodate others when this institution is crowded, as it usually is. There is also an asylum for the blind and the aged and infirm. The inmates of some of these institutions are sent out to beg every day. At Wing-shing-sha there is an asylum for lepers which will contain 200 inmates, founded more than two centuries ago by a benevolent man of the clan Yhu. At Chong-poo-hom, Archdeacon Gray found another asylum, where the inmates seemed to live in comparative comfort. Everywhere asylums and anchorages for these unhappy people are found. The author whom we have so frequently quoted, and who is regarded as an authority -- Archdeacon Gray-says, there is little pity in the hearts of Chinamen for the afflicted, and that benevolent institutions founded or supported by private individuals owe their origin and sustenance to other senti- ments than the "pious feeling of willing sacrific." These good works Motives for are done "to ensure the favor of the gods," and sometimes to secure Chinese charity the favor of the Emperor. In 1872, a banker who had given much help to the sufferers from the floods at Tien-Tsin, was raised to the rank of Provincial Treasurer, and his parents to the first grade. He then gave 10,000,000 cash (about $14,500), and the suggestion was made that an imperial tablet or scroll should be given him. This is a rare and splendid honor. The Chinese, like the Jews in the time of our Lord, regard dis- eases, bodily or mental, as inflicted by the gods for sin, with the difference that the doctrine of the transmigration of souls confines the inference made by the Chinese to the individual suffering.

There are no lunatic asylums in China, and no workhouses, but there No lunatic: are it seems institutions where, in the winter, beggars can obtain food and Ibid, p. 55 asylums. shelter. Boiled rice, during a severe winter, is sometimes doled out to the hungry people. In all walled cities and in many towns there are imperial granaries, whence in time of war or famine rice is supposed to be retailed at a reduced price. But travellers tell us that these grana- ries are suffered to remain empty, that it is rare to find more than a mea- sure of rice in any of them, and that many are in a ruinous condition. Mr. Gray insists that the motive which leads to the creation of these insti- tutions is not benevolence, but self-preservation. In dealing with a nation it is, perhaps, as hard to judge motives as in the case of individuals.

In forming a fair opinion this must be remembered : that no social Qualifying cir- intercourse can take place between foreigners and Chinamen in China. Medhurst, p. 29. cumstanees. Therefore the foreigner cannot see them at their best, and from European

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Chinese not so black as they are painted.

countries of high civilization the traveller who did not happen to come in contact with their social life has gone away making exaggerated charges of every kind. Mr. Medhurst, Consul at Shanghai, who points out many of the blots that other travellers have marked, says, neverthe- less, that there is "every reason for concluding that the Chinese are not so prone to evil and so dead to good as they have been made out to be."

Medhurst, p. 168. Instances of cruelty.

The charge of cruelty is, however, established. The Chinaman will contemplate the infliction of torture or death in its most repul- sive form and munch his rice unconcerned. The massacre, in 1828, of Boulger, vol. iii., the French crew of Le Navire, who took passage in a Chinese junk for Macao ; the massacre of two crews, whose ships had been wrecked on the coast of Formosa, by the Formosa Mandarins ; the conduct of the soldiers who, with concealed weapons, took passage on board the Thistle, and killed all on board ; the cowardly treachery which charactized the abandonment of the defence of Pehtang ;* the murder of men who would have been regarded by any European nation in the character of heralds, or at worst as prisoners of war ; General Ching's cruelty, which nearly led to

pp. 74, 222.

Ibid, p. 487.

Ibid, pp. 508-20.

Ibid, p. 598. Ibid, p. 616. Gray, vol. ii., pp. -47, 55.

the resignation of Gordon ; the brutal murder of the Wangs by Li Hung Chang, futai of Kiangsu, after he had sworn to their personal safety ; want of pity for the wretched; the barbarously cruel punishments inflicted on criminals-these things, and they could be added to indefinitely, show callousness to suffering-cruelty, as it were, on principle.

Infanticide practised.

As to the charge of infanticide it is established by universal testimony, and the only room for doubt is as to the extent to which it obtains. On this head the author just quoted says :

" There are towns and districts where infanticide is practised, in some to an infamous extent, in others to a less degree ; there are others again where it is not known at all as a habit, and in the majority of cities I am inclined to believe that it is a crime no more indulged in than is the case in some European towns, and then only with the object of concealing another act of frailty."

He adds that if there is any distinction to be made it is in favor of the Northern and Midland as against the Southern and coast provinces. The swarm of children gives the lie to its universal practice.

The nature of the charge of infanti- cide.

Yes, certainly, to its universal practice. But the charge is not that every infant is killed, or that every female infant is killed. Either charge would not need rebuttal ; it would carry its absurdity on its fore- head. The charge is that where poverty is great, or the family of girls

* " While the garrison had resolved not to resist an attack, they had contem- plated causing their enemy as much loss as if he had been obliged to carry the place by storm by placing shells in the magazine which would be exploded by the moving of some gun-locks put in a spot where they could not fail to be trodden upon. This plot, which was thoroughly in accordance with the practices of Chi- nese warfare, was fortunately divulged by a native more humane than patriotic." -Boulger's History of China, vol. III., p. 487.

INFANTICIDE.

already thought too large, the murder of female children is pursued on principle and with impunity. Archdeacon Gray says:

" The female children of Chinese parents are, in some instances, put to Gray, vol. i., p. 232. death. Many reasons are assigned for a practice so wicked and unnatural. See also vol. ii., pp. 50, 51. Poor people plead their poverty as an excuse. They contend that it is Reasons given for better to put their infant daughters to death than be obliged, as is, alas ! putting female the case with many, to sell them as slaves or for the base purposes of children to death. prostitution. Infanticide is, however, not confined to the poor, * * but though it is more or less practised by the nation, some Chinese "regard the crime as one of a most diabolical nature."*

Colonel Tong stoutly denies that infanticide prevails. He refers to the Colonel Tong's charge with indignation, says the love of parents for their children is the charge of infanti- rebuttal of the same the world over, and points out that the laws of the Empire punish cide. infanticide, and in the next place that there are foundling hospitals. Then, the midwife who carries to one of these institutions a child found abandoned, or who gives information of an infanticide, is paid a fixed .sum. When such a crime is committed, not only the immediate author of it, but the head of the family and even the neighbors are punished.

"It is a rare thing to hear infanticide spoken of in the towns and cities, In the country where the means of earning a living are more abundant than in the coun- customs which try, while in the country certain customs exist which favor the educa- tendency to tion of children. In every family, the moment a male child is born the infanticide. .custom is to choose for him her who shall be his future wife. The parents take from a neighboring family a little girl, who is educated at the same time as her future husband and in the same house. She is brought up ·as if she belonged to the family.

"There is, for poor parents, another custom to escape from misery, and The child may be to protect the lives of their female children : the sale of the child to a rich sold to a rich family. family in which she will serve as a domestic."

He assures us we need not be shocked at the word sale, because when Masters give a these girls grow up they get a suitable fortune, are married, and they be- their female small dower to

· would counteract

slaves.

* " Let us take a case to illustrate the phases of national feeling with regard A case which to it. In the spring of the year 1872, a woman who resided in the western suburb .of Canton was seen by a neighbor to drown her adopted female child in the regarded. Wongsha Creek. The neighbors informed the elders of the district of the murder, and the accused was immediately seized and imprisoned in the back room of a neighboring temple. On the following day she was arraigned before the elders, and excused herself that the child was sickly. On the entreaties of her husband, who in the most importunate manner begged for her pardon, they liberated the murderess, for by no other name can she be designated. The elders were thus lenient, although a governor-general who some twenty years before had ruled .over the united provinces of Kwang-Tung and Kwangsi had issued an edict declaring that all mothers found guilty of a crime so unnatural and so diabolical as infanticide, would be severely punished. In 1848, the chief justice or criminal .judge of Kwang-Tung issued an edict, in which he condemned it in very strong terms. In this edict the attention of the people was directed to the teachings of nature, with the view of reproaching them for such acts of barbarity. 'You should,' he said, ' consider that insects, fish, birds and beasts all love what they produce. On leaving the womb they are as weak as a hair, and can you endure instantly to compass your offspring's death ?"-Gray, vol. I., p. 232.

illustrates the way filiacide is

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

come free. They can receive all the rights which maternity confers, and their origin is no reproach. Such usages are to be accepted and not con- demned. They favor large families. There are numerous poor families who keep all their children with them and lavish on them the most tender care. The mother working in the field will carry two while she works- bent to the earth, the one on her shoulders, the other in the folds of her dress, "and they smile at the birds flying around them while the poor mother pursues her heavy toil."

All this it will be seen is no answer. It is in the nature of what pleaders used to call confession and avoidance. It would be quite as much to the point to cite how Virginius slew his beautiful daughter to save her from the couch of Claudius.

At home as abroad the Chinaman is remarkably abstemious. Tea seems from a very early period to have been the national stimulant. But their novels prove that whiskey was drunk. Whiskey stills exists everywhere. Williamson in his journey from Pekin to Che-foo found in several places large manufactories of ardent spirits ; and unless the Chinese nation is more peculiar than it is possible to believe, where whiskey is drunk drunken- ness to some extent will prevail. It is habitually drunk at least at two meals as may be seen in San Francisco. Travellers have met with drunken Chinamen. A late king drew out a life of drunken debauchery. Still Chinese intemperance does not lie in this direction. Travellers meet in all classes with victims of opium. The Abbé Huc gives a graphic picture. of a Mandarin who travelled with him hopelesly lost to the vice, and Mr. Williamson tells us of a whole town given up to its degrading spell. Elsewhere he mourns that opium is gnawing at the vitals of the Empire, and destroying thousands of its most promising sons. Mr. Medhurst re- grets that the vice is general and has been gaining ground, nor is it. possible to regard the Chinese as a temperate nation.

Williamson, vol. p. 7. Where infanticide prevails to any extent it needs little evidence to con- vince that the sale of children for small sums frequently takes place. Gray, vol. i., p. 233. Colonel Tong tell us children are sold. Nor does there appear to be any Unrestricted power of parents over children. law to restrain parents in the exercise of authority over their offspring. They are sold ; sons are taken as bondsmen for their father's debts ; some- times children voluntarily sell themselves with the view of relieving their parents' difficulties.

Gray, vol. i., p. 242. Slave brokers.

A prominent Chinese witness who said there was no slavery in China, must have meant such as existed in the Southern States. Slave-brokers are met with every day in Canton. The ranks of slavery are recruited from ruined gamblers ; by kidnapping ; and, worst of all, by profligate parents selling their children. Mr. Gray, describing a sale at Canton, says : "I remember two bright-looking youths being sold by their profli- gate father who had gambled his means away. The eldest lad fetched $50 and the younger $40. The old slave-broker offered one of the youths to me at the advanced price of $350."

SLAVERY. AN UNWARLIKE RACE.

" The usual price of an ordinary able-bodied slave, male, is about $100. Gray, vol. i., pp. Persons when sold as slaves generally fall first of all into the hands of 242, 243. Slave market. brokers or go-betweens. Such characters are either aged men or women. Before buying slaves, a dealer keeps them for a month on trial. Should he discover that they talk in their sleep, or afford any indications of a weakness of system, he either offers a small sum for them, or declines to complete the purchase. The broker is made to take the slave into a dark room, and a blue light is burned. Should the face of the slave assume a greenish hue in this light, a favorable opinion is entertained. Should it show a reddish color it is concluded that the blood is tainted by this loath- some disease [leprosy].

" The slavery to which these unfortunate persons are subject, is per- petual and hereditary, and they have no parental authority over their off- spring. The great grandsons of slaves, however, can, if they have suffi- cient means, purchase their freedom. Slaves, although regarded as mem- bers of the family, are not recognized as members of the general com- munity. They cannot, for example, sue in courts of laws. In short, they are outside the pale of citizenship, and within the reach of the avarice, or hatred, or lust of their masters."

Colonel Tong's papers would of themselves show that the Chinese are Chinese not a not a warlike race. He sneers, surely not without cause, that the chief warlike race. gifts offered by the western world to China, on the opening of the ports, were fire arms. More than once he points out what the ideal of the Em- pire is-peace and to keep pauperism at a distance. Early as history goes with Europe did they fall into the practice of buying off invaders. But But not cowards. they are not cowards ; they can fight ; and perhaps it is a blessing that they are not warlike. The Mongols who followed the great Genghis, effected the conquest of China and made Kublai Emperor of the Middle character as Kingdom, owed their supremacy to their discipline and close study of the Boulger, vol. i., warriors. art of war. But they owed much to China " where the art of disciplin- p. 462. Instances of Chinese valor. ing a large army, and manœuvring in the field, had been brought to a high state of perfection many centuries before the time of Genghis." The Mongols carried the art of war further than any Chinese commander, than perhaps any in the world up to that day, yet the Chinese checked them near the Yu Mountains. Coming down to modern times they Ibid, iii., 86. overthrew no unheroic foe at Yangabad ; they brought the fierce moun- Ibid, iii., 97. tain daring of the Miaotze into quiescence ; and in the first and second foreign wars they showed at times soldierly qualities ; as when the officials at Tinghai, though admitting that resistance was useless, replied Ibid, iii., 146 and to the summons to yield : " No surrender !" or as when their noble con- Ibid, iii., 181. 183. duct won the praise of English officers, and, to use the words of an English Ibid, iii., 179. tar, they stood to their guns "right manfully." At Canton they fought well under fire ; and Boulger looking back on the events of the war of 1842, and having pointed out that the Chinese were often no better than Ibid, iii., 205. a badly armed mob, says on no single occasion did they evince cowardice. Their defeat was inevitable. But they proved they could fight well even when victory was practically impossible. In the winter of 1856 Chinamen cool under fire. they displayed great endurance and bravery in the face of an enemy they

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Chinese bravery.

could not defeat, and Archdeacon Gray tells how during Sir Michael Seymour's bombardment of the Bogue forts the Chinese fire brigade were seen energetically at work, under the fire from the ships, trying to put out the spreading conflagration. At the battle of Chan-chia-wan the Tartar cavalry charged the French guns right gallantly, and so impressed was Sir Hope Grant with the obstinacy of the foe, that he ordered Sir Robert Napier to join him with as many troops as he could spare from the Tien- Tsin garrison. Under Chinese Gordon they showed what they could do if they had able commanders.

Boulger vol. iii, p. 512.

Williamson. vol. ii, p. 299.

On the other hand they could not stand the cold steel, appeared to fear personal contact with the European soldiers, and at Chinhai fled panic- stricken, though even here many bravely preferred death to safety by flight.

Chinese timidity.

Williamson says of some native troops he saw in a valley near Ping- Williamson, vol. ii., p. 360. ding-chow that they were fine looking fellows, "good raw material if their officers were worth a rush ; it is the ruling class in China which is utterly rotten." The same writer tells us, however, how he and a friend, the one with a stick the other brandishing the handle of an umbrella put a whole " celestial mob " to flight. He gives us the broad statement that in danger the Chinese are apt to become utterly useless, and this opinion is echoed Huc, vol. i., p. 21. by other travellers. The Abbé Huc describes an incident in his own experience which is an exact parallel of that recounted by Mr. Williamson. He and his companions were annoyed by a curious crowd which pressed to the door of their chamber in the hotel. One of them went to the threshold and addressed the "multitude" in a few words, accompanied by a gesture so energetic and commanding that the crowd was seized with panic and saved itself by flight.

An apologist for Chinese institu- tions.

Such timidity may be the result of long centuries of despotism. But it may be referable to race peculiarities. Besides long centuries of despotism, are themselves the result of certain qualities in the people.

Revue, 15th June, 1884, p. 829.

The Chinese workman.

Colonel Tong's articles are peculiarly valuable. They say all that can be said for China by a man whose instincts and interests impel him to defend his country and countrymen. The very tone-if it can be caught in a translation-helps to an appreciation of the Chinese character. Mr. Medhurst says that an anglicised Chinaman is detestable ; if writing in the same mood as Colonel Tong it might be said that a gallicised China- man is surely charming. We shall now let the colonel speak on one or two heads on which he has not yet been heard from. To show how happy the Chinese laborer is, he quotes, from a book by Mr. J. Thompson, published at Paris, in 1877, the following passage on the workmen of Canton :---

" In despite of these terrible needs, work even for the poorest workman has moments of interruption. When seated on a bench, or even on the earth, he smokes and speaks quietly with his neighbor without being in the least put out by the presence of his employer, who appears to find in the smiles and happy character of his workmen elements of riches and prosperity."

THE STANDARD OF COMFORT.

Mr. Thompson describes the quarters of the workmen, and it will be The workmen's seen (Appendix D, p. 369) that they correspond with what the Commis- Canton. quarters in sion saw at San Francisco.

" In making the round of the workmen's quarters, one easily under- stands how much more populous this city is than would at first appear. For the most part each workshop is a kitchen, a dining-room, and a bed- room. It is on his bench the workman breakfasts; it is on the same bench he sleeps at night. There all they possess is found. * * But of all their treasures the most precious consists in a good share of health and a contented heart."

This description of the Chinese workman is exactly the same as the Low standard of hostile white man gives. comfort.

The Chinese workman is content if he escapes from the agonies of hun- ger, and if he has such health as permits him simply to live and to enjoy in a country so perfect, that the mere fact of living in it constitutes in a despotic itself real happiness. China is, according to him, a country where all is country. established and ordered by men who know exactly what they ought to know, and who are paid to prevent the people troubling by seeking ambitiously to quit the condition in which Providence has placed them.

The true spirit for-

Colonel Tong also quotes the following from "Chinese Sketches " by M. Herbert A. Giles, attaché to the Consular corps of Great Britain :-

" It is generally believed that the Chinese are a degraded and immoral Chinese industri race; that the inhabitants of China are absolutely dishonest, cruel, and happy. ous, sober and at all points depraved ; that opium, a scourge more fearful than gin, causes frightful ravages among them, and that its course can only be arrested by Christianity. A residence of eight years in China has taught me that the Chinese are a people of indefatigable industry, sober and happy."

Again, the same author writes :

"The number of human beings who suffer from cold and hunger is The life of the relatively far smaller than in England, and from this point of view which China compared lower classes in is of great importance, it is necessary to recognize the fact that the con- with that of the dition of the women of the lower class is far better than that of their England. same class in European sisters. Wife-beating is unknown ; the wife is subjected to no bad treatment ; and it is unusual to address her in that coarse language not unusual in western countries."

Colonel Tong says that a Chinese workman can live on four cents a day, Chinese workmen and that his wages are never less than twenty cents a day. Generally cents a day in can live on four the workman's wife does something, either selling small articles or work- China ing in the daytime in neighboring houses.

In the provinces throughout the vast Empire the whole land is culti- Cultivators of the. vated, and field-labor employs a large portion of the population. All the soil well off. cultivators of the soil are well off, whether they are owners or only farmers. The land-tax is very small, not being on an average more than twenty cents a head, and it is a rule that the farmer pays no rent in bad years.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

He also cites M. de la Vernède :

" We have travelled through the provinces ; we have seen an immense population arrived at such a density that the land cannot in certain places hold them, and they consequently build and cultivate gardens on rafts ; we have seen provinces having 100,000 square kilomètres contain- ing 50,000,000 of inhabitants and well cultivated throughout their entire extent."

In Pechili, he tells us, the land is very much divided ; agriculture is carried on on a minute scale, but the intelligence with which it is directed prevents the great inconveniences of very small farming.

The farms, small and large, with their great trees look like bouquets of flowers in the midst of vast plains yellow with rich harvests of grain. The cheapness of manual labor makes culture in alternate rows (par rangée alternative ) possible. "The land is admirably cultivated and gives magni- ficent results."

"In wandering along the shores of the Yang-Tse-Kiang we have seen rich and pretty villages succeed each other without interruption, a popula- tion active and laborious, showing in its countenance as well as in its actions that it was content with its lot."

He then contrasts the miserable villages on the Nile with "the pretty villages we have traversed in the Hu Pe or on the shores of Lake Poyang. Economical and sober, patient and active, honest and laborious, the people of China have a power of work which surpasses that of most western nations. Here is an important factor which should not be forgotten in questions relating to the higher politics."

Dealing with the pleasures of his countrymen, Colonel Tong says that among the many questions regarding China which have been addressed to him the one which he had oftenest heard was whether people amused themselves in China.

" Do they amuse themselves ? Then it must be a charming country. Ah! to be amused! what a civilized expression, and how difficult to trans- late it! I replied, one day, to a clever woman who put to me this eternal question: 'What is it to be amused?' She thought I sought to embarrass her, and she answered: 'What you do at this moment, for instance. You are amusing yourself now.' It was now my turn to be embarrassed, or at least to seen so. 'Yes,' I cried, 'this, then, is to be amused ?' 'Certainly. Well,' she added with a charming smile, 'do they amuse themselves?' and I was compelled to admit they did not amuse themselves in that way. Indeed they do amuse themselves, and amuse themselves very much- those who are not devoid of intelligence, or at the least of good humor. Intelligence plays an important role in our pleasures. * *

* Our an important part out-of-door life is not organized like that of Europe. People do not seek Intelligence plays in Chinese plea- sures. distractions and amusements away from their own homes. Chinese in good circumstances have so arranged their houses that they have no desire for factitious pleasures, which are a proof that one is not pleased at home. * * * They do not believe that cafés and other places of public resort are necessary in order to pass the time agreeably. They have

AMUSEMENTS AND FESTIVALS.

adorned their homes with all that a man of taste could desire : gardens, in which to walk ; kiosques, where they may find protection from the Marrying young summer heat ; flowers to charm the senses. Inside all is arranged for produces preco- family life. Frequently the same roof covers several generations. The cious gravity. children grow up, and as they marry very young they are soon grave. They think of useful amusements, of study, of conversation-and the opportunities to meet are so numerous !"

Feast days, the colonel writes, are held in high honor in China and are Feast days. celebrated with great spirit. First, you have birthdays, and they occur frequently in families. These feasts are celebrated generally by banquets ; presents are given to the subject of the celebration ; this is one of the consequences of such meetings and it is not wanting in charm.

They have also great popular festivals. There is the feast of the new Popular festivals. year which everybody takes part in. He then describes several festivals at the head of which stands the feast of lanterns. The flowers which are endowed with certain allegorical powers are feted, and each flower has its anniversary. Letters go from family to family containing invitations to come to enjoy a beautiful moonlight, a charming view, a rare plant. Nature always forms an element in the festival, which concludes with a banquet. The guests are also invited to compose verses, which remain the records of the evening. During the fine weather excursions are in vogue. People go especially to the Buddhist monasteries where they find everything they can desire ; magnificent mountain scenery, exquisite fruit, and the best tea. The Buddhist monks, it seems, understand to perfection how to receive " parties," and to do the honors of their establishment.

One may well pause here to note the low tastes of these coarse barba- rians ; their childishness withal ; grown up people inviting other grown up people to come to look at a full moon, a charming vista, or a rare flower !

" Promenades to the environs of the town, when one can make them, Promenadesto the are very frequent. They generally give rise to some poetic effusion. It is f towns our way of making a sketch." and cities.

Having given a description of visits to mountain scenes and trips by water, and spoken of the position of women, he turns the tables on his Western friends.

The description of the charge on the buffet at a great official ball may European man well parry the thrust of " barbarian " made against the Chinese. He points the " t out with the utmost reason, that if he were to note that in Europe when those who compose the highest classes are admitted into the presence of the head of the State they do not sit at table but struggle with warlike fury, he would perhaps not give a faithful idea of European manners. Yet, he says, this is the way travellers have taken notes in China.

" But I return to the hungry ones who wait the opening of the doors ; Supper. it is all so grotesque, and I invite the disciples of the realistic school to contemplate this scene which one might call the mêlée of the dark coats.',

Refined pleasures.

ners criticised by

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

How to get out ?

Then he describes the rush and the crush ; the row of black-coated gentlemen who cannot get near the table ; the serried rank of those now satisfied who try to get out. Crowded and crushed they at length escape from the mêlée having had bumps raised on them, and their sides dug into by struggling elbows-but fed ! He does not speak of those who remain until the servants politely request them to give place to others ! " I have- never," he says, " been at a ball without witnessing this battle."

Dullness of fash- ionable private balls.

At the balls of the fashionable world, our Chinese critic thinks a man cannot amuse himself as much as at the official balls. They are cold, stiff, and irritating. In the fashionable world it is difficult to find simpli- city and distinction united. If you are not a dancer you have abundant. opportunities for ennui. An air of indifference pervades this grand world. It is sometimes icy. The dance proceeds in silence ; some groups speak in. low tones ; people go, come, enter, disappear. They meet without appear- ing to recognize each other. All appear preoccupied. Generally people seek some one who is not at the ball. What a comedy, this world of the drawing room !

This "barbarian", who sees so clearly the faults in the social organization of Europe which have struck thoughtful Europeans a hundred times seems The world of art. to escape with relief to the world of art-" that privileged society where each one is neither noble, nor bourgeois, nor magistrate, nor barrister, nor notary, nor attorney, nor functionary, nor merchant, nor bureaucrat, nor man of property, but only artist and content to be that. To be an artist !"-he exclaims-and what a fool he will seem to some- " that is the only ambition which would make it desirable to belong to European society ! " He does not admire barristers and attorneys. 400,000,000 Chinese do without them, and yet titles to property and con- tracts are not the less regular. But admiration for artists is without High aim of artists. reserve, for they are the only men who propose to themselves a high aim ; they live to think, in order that they may show man his grandeur and immateriality. They move him and inspire him with enthusiasm and awake his dormant faculties by creating for him works in which thought. glows and beauty gleams. Art ennobles everything, elevates everything. What matters the price paid for the work ? It is not the number of dollars which will kindle the passion of the artist as it inflames the ardor Art the only thing which escapes the of the advocate. No : the only thing which escapes the fascination of fascination of gold, gold, is art, whatever the artist may be. That is essentially free, and therefore, is it worthy to be esteemed and honored.

Having eulogised those fine spirits who live for art, he says the artists of all countries reach the hand to each other over dividing frontiers and cry " shame " on those politicians who would fain separate them. The human mind moved by the bold impulses of inspiration is neither controlled by distance nor passports. The more the soul is elevated, the more humanity seeks to become transfigured into fraternity.

Senator Jones, in his zeal against the Chinese, denies that they have

ORIGINALITY OF CIVILIZATION.

invented anything, and seeks to wrest from them the doubtful honor of Who invented having found out the secrets of " villainous saltpetre." He cites Professor powder? printing and gun-

Draper, who gives the credit of the invention to the Arabs, and backs up Draper by the weighty authority of Mr. Mayers.

"Therefore I conclude that the Chinese never gave us these discoveries, notwithstanding the sneers that I have seen in some newspapers since, and the confident tone with which the Senator questioned me as to who else could have made them. And I would say, further, that there is scarcely a single piece of machinery, howsoever useful, howsoever ingeni- ous, working in China to-day. The only enterprise the Chinese have shown in the way of railroads has been in tearing up the only railroad ever built in that country, a railroad built by foreigners and afterward bought by the Chinese authorities in order that they might tear it up."

Now, Colonel Tong naturally takes quite a different view. Considering how little communication existed between China and other nations, he says it is surprising the Chinese know as much as they do. Excepting geography and astronomy,'all the other arts, they profess, are the result of their own investigation. China, he claims, is the only country on the globe which can boast that it has evolved its own civilization. They had imitated no one. Chinese civilization is found nowhere save in China. The Chinese theatre is as original as that of the Greeks. China forms a world apart. Yet he throws out a sigh rather than a hope that science might yet throw to men this great message of peace : " Ye are brethern !" Western civilization is a new edition revised and corrected of previous civilizations. "Ours no doubt has submitted to many editions, but we find it sufficiently corrected, and in any case we have no editor who contemplates the preparation of a new one." They were reproached with being stationary. But when people are well off, as well off as possible, are they certain by changing from the present to find a better future ?" He then claims that the Chinese invented gunpowder; and, after his manner, gives a little thrust at the West. "People do us the honor to admit we have invented gunpowder. But here is where we differ from our western brethren. We employed it for fire-works, and only that we made the acquaintance of westerns we should never have applied it to fire-arms. It was the Jesuits who taught us to cast cannon. " Go and teach all nations."

He also claims the invention of printing and the magnetic needle. So Printing and the early as A.D. 121 the Chinese books define the loadstone, and a century magnetic needle .. later explain the use of the compass. Powder, printing, the compass, silk, porcelain-these inventions (and some of them cannot be denied the Chinese) he holds give them a high rank among civilized nations. The monuments of this civilization belong to an epoch when Europe did not Antiquity of exist ; a civilization contemporary with the old dynasties of Egypt, and China. the Chaldean patriarchs, having been founded in the early ages of human_ ity, and having suffered no change for a thousand years. A Greek his-

5

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

torian of the second century is the first outside writer to speak of China as a country whence silk, raw and manufactured, was exported. Chinese history mentions a Chinese Embassy sent in the year A.D. 94 to seek to open up some relations with the western world.

The veil lifted from the isolated Empire in the 8th century.

"It was in the eighth century that the veil which covered the Chinese world was raised. It was in this century that the Empire commenced to have relations with the Arabs, and this is the epoch whence our existence in the world of history dates. The accounts written of the sojourn of the Arabs in our country, accounts written by themselves and which have been translated, bear witness to the prosperity of the Empire, and compel the belief that one thousand years ago China enjoyed a brilliant civiliza- tion. It is probable that the Arabs learned our arts and appropriated our discoveries, which were afterwards introduced into western countries and there perfected. This is an opinion which I think I have clearly demonstrated."

Though the Chinese did not make voyages into distant western coun- tries, there can be no doubt that other peoples settled amongst them. Two centuries before the Christian Era a number of Jews found their way into China. This was under the Han dynasty, " one of the most flourish- ing epochs of the Empire." Williamson gives a most striking narrative of his visits to Jewish synagogues. Colonel Tong quotes an account of a visit to the Jewish colony by a Jesuit in the eighteenth century not less interesting.

In bidding adieu to Colonel Tong we may point out this rule that you must judge a race by its highest and not by its lowest members. A race that produces a man who can learn a language like French-a language having nothing in common with his own-and write that language in such a manner that Théophile Gauthier need not blush to have the style attributed to him-such a race can be no very inferior race, whatever else it may be. It may be played out, or in the course of playing out ; it may have lost hold of the principles which in other days gave it brilliancy and power ; the corruption of its government, its social and political organization may have numbed its moral and intellectual vitality ; but an inferior race, as this phrase is usually understood, it can- not be.

Let us remember the dark blots which an observant eye can see in European civilization, its political defects, its social ulcers, the misery . and crime. Let us remember also that the one thing which so markedly separates Europe from China is essentially modern-physical science. Before the fruitful method of the Baconian philosophy introduced a new era, before the telescope of Galileo guided the mind through the solar system, Europe was as backward in science as China is to-day, just as much given up to superstition, just as cruel. It seems but yesterday that torture was practised in England, and we know what English goals were before Howard swept away those habitations of cruelty. Mr. Gladstone's greenest laurels he won exploring and exposing and reforming Neapolitan

ALEXANDER THE GREAT AND CHINESE FLATTERY.

prisons. The Greeks had no physical science, as we understand it. They had the drama, literature, philosophy, sculpture, painting, oratory. The Chinese have a drama, and though they have neither sculpture nor ora- tory, they have painting of a kind-painting in which there is no shadow and which has a quaint excellence of its own. Their silks and porcelain have never been surpassed. They have had their philosophers. They have poetry, and a highly organized social life. If Chinese are to be excluded or dealt with in a way different from that accorded to other immigrants it must be on some more rational ground than the charge that they come from a barbarous country steeped in vice and overrun with crime.

And here, perhaps, we are brought face to face with the core of the whole question. How comes it that this people, one of the earliest to become civilized, have remained unchanged, as Colonel Tong boasts, for a thousand years ? There are, certainly, limitations to development in the individual man. In the lower animals we see that each species is confined within clearly defined bounds. Why should there not be likewise deter- mining grooves for different races of men ?

Mr. Brooks takes our breath away when he suggests that China may Chinese adulation have been peopled for 1,000,000 years, and that the Chinese were uncon trolled by foreign influence for 360,000 years. The earliest mention we have of China, unless it should be held that it is alluded to in the earlier prophets, is in a Persian work entitled Zeenut-ul Tuarikh. Somebody has said that had Alexander the Great known of the existence of China vol. i., pp. 256-7. Martin's China, he need not have wept because there had come an end to his career of conquest. If one may trust the Persian author, Alexander was marching against the Emperor of China, who entered the Grecian camp in disguise. He was discovered and brought before Alexander, and explained his con- duct by saying he was anxious to see the greatest of warriors; that he knew he could be no object of dread to such a man, and that even if slain the Chinese would raise another sovereign .to fill his throne. "But of this," he said, with true Chinese flattery, "I can have no fear, as I am satisfied Alexander can never be displeased with an action that shows a solicitude to obtain his friendship." China was spared, a treaty con- cluded, and a tribute imposed. The Emperor returned to China, but reappeared on the third day with an immense army. Alexander prepared his forces for battle. The Emperor of China, with his suite, went towards the Grecian prince, who asked him why he had broken faith. "I wished," said the Emperor, "to show the number of my army, that you might be satisfied I made peace from other motives than an inability to make war. It was from consulting the stars. The heavens aid you. I war not with them."

The Chinese adulation was successful. Alexander released the Emperor from paying tribute. The Emperor took his leave and sent the master of the world presents of jewels, gold, and beautiful ladies.

This story is not without verisimilitude. It is treated as historical by no less grave a person than Sir John Malcolm.

Chinese art.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

Martin's China, vol. i., p. 194. When we go beyond 2000 B.C. we get into the mythical period of: Chinese history. Meng-tse, the Chinese historian, speaking of the condi- tion of China under the Emperor Yu (B.C. 2208), says the country was: desert and the men savages. The low lands were covered with water. The high lands were covered with wood and bush, and abounded in wild. beasts. Yu devoted his life to draining the land. He set fire to the. forests, in order to clear the land and drive the wild beasts away.

The manufacture of cotton was not known until the second century before Christ. It is quite clear that China was, long after the time of Yu, occupied only by wandering savages or pastoral tribes, with here and. there a city or camp. The heads of tribes, as in other countries at a like stage, would be spoken of as princes, and wars among themselves would keep down population. How the various principalities came to be united under one head analogy enables us to guess, but the peculiarities of Chinese historians make it impossible we shall ever know the real facts .. Gibbon says, "China has been illustrated by the French," and another historian points out how they have always been foremost to recognize the innate strength and greatness of the Chinese nation. This is quite true. But many of them have certainly been at fault in seeking to give authen- ticity to records which have unmistakable mythic characteristics, and whose chronology can be successfully assailed, not only on historical but. a priori grounds. M. de Guignes says, that one of the sources of error is that the Chinese historians have "given to their ancient characters the acceptation they acquired only in later times." We see the same thing in Ireland, where the chiefs of tribes and clans were spoken of as kings. So the Chinese " characters now translated emperor, prince, city, palace, meant no more than chief, district, camp, house. So far from this Empire having an existence 3,000 years before the Christian Era, it has not been united together in a durable manner above 529 years B.C." China had an existence long before this, and what de Guignes must mean is that the Empire, in its present form, is not earlier than the later years of the sixth century, B.C. One historian tells us that in 1766, B.C., there were 3,000 feudal principalities in China.

The Chinese boast of being "the sons of Han," and look back on the men of that dynasty (B.C. 202-A.D. 190) as the great builders of cities. to protect them against the less civilized tribes. But China is not only the oldest civilized Empire extant, it is the only civilized country in existence whose civilization takes us back to a period more than 2,000. years before our era. Confucius was born 550 B.C., and in his Ch'un-ts'ew he gives us an account of the twenty-one independent principalities into which China was then divided. If so colorless a production can be said to give a picture of anything one might say, it paints for us feudal China. But the fact is we must look elsewhere for truth which Confucius sup- presses. For instance, he never lets his readers know that the Lords of the Great States of Ts'oo usurped the title of King, which was equivalent

PARALLELS WITH JEWISH CUSTOMS.

to renouncing their allegiance to the dynasty of Chow. Without discuss- Martin, vol. i., pp. ing the value of the book it is enough to say it shows us a civilized nation 199, 200. progressing towards unity before Romulus had climbed Mount Palatine. Muh-Wang, the fifth king of the Chow dynasty, was fond of magnificence and built gorgeous palaces aud temples. This monarch said of himself : See Legge's C 'un "My disposition inclines towards what is wrong, but my resource is in 86-90. Ts'ew, part 4, pp. my ministers, who should check me when I swerve from the straight path." The eclipses recorded by the Chinese attest the veracity of the historian and the correctness of his dates on the whole.

Who were the people who first settled China ? To what race do they belong? What is the secret of their national longevity? Professor Douglas in his admirable paper on China in the Encyclopedia Britannica says they belong to the Mongol family. Mr. Martin says they are a branch of the Scythians.

One thing is certain they came from the same parent stock as the Hebrews, or from the same or a neighboring place. The supreme god the ancient Chinese worshipped corresponds to Jehovah, and the parallel customs are numerous. To-day the farmers in China prepare their grain for market as the Israelitish husbandman used to prepare it in the days of David. Prisoners are shackled as they were among the ii., p. 104. Williamson, vol. Jews. When a child is born he is wrapped in "swaddling clothes " having 2 Chron. xxxiii, 11; been previously washed with water in which the rind of green ginger, Ps. ii., 3. a herb called the gold and silver flower, and the leaves of the Whampu Ezekiel, xvi., 4. tree have been boiled. The mother is required to stay at home 100 days after the birth of a child and for the same cause-she is regarded Lev. xii., 2-6. as unclean. To a favorite child the father presents "a coat of many colors " as did Jacob to Joseph. The Jewish parents chose a wife for Gen. xxi., 21, their son; so do the Chinese parents to day. Among the Jews as among the Judges xiv., 2. Exod. xxi., 9, 10, 11. Chinese to-day the father had unlimited power over his children, and the 2 Kings, v., 1-3. young Hebrew was often taken as a bondsman for debts contracted by his Numbers xxx., 4. father. The Chinese father has more power over his daughter than over his son ; so had the Jew. Colonel Tong seems to think that the Chinese Emperors borrowed the custom of having eunuchs from the Arabians. But if we had no history the theory is too improbable to be received. We find in the Chinese Court eunuchs rising to posts of distinction just as we do under Hebrew sovereigns. The same intimacy exists between the Chinese noble or prince and his servants as we find exemplified when David, on hearing of the death of his child, ceased to fast and weep, and the storyof Naaman and the little Israelitish captive will at once suggest itself. On the birth of a male child a rich Chinaman will give a dinner to the poor, who are bidden -as in the parable. In their lamentations for the dead, the Chinese rival in length and loudness the ancient Egyptians, or the professional mourners who chant the keen at an Irish wake. The Jews in the same way " wept and Mark v., 38. wailed greatly," and " made great lamentation." Sackcloth is worn by the Acts viii., 2. relatives of the deceased, and no mourner cuts his hair, or beard, or his Job xvi., 15, 16. nails, during the first seven weeks' bereavement. We learn from Herodotus 1 Kings xxi., 27 ; Jonah iii., 8.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

that the same customs were observed by the common people in Egypt, 2 Samuel, xix., 2 and the conduct of Mephibosheth during King David's absence from his capital points to a like custom among the Jews. For seven days after a man's death his widow and children sit on the ground and sleep upon mats spread on the floor near the coffin ; nor is any food cooked in the house, the neighbors supplying the common necessaries of life. We find the 2 Samuel, iii., 35; same custom among the Jews in early times. On the seventh day of Jer. xvi., 7 ; Ezek. xxiv., 17. mourning for the dead musicians are placed within the porch of the house, Matt. ix., 23. who play doleful tunes. Matthew tells us how "Jesus came into the ruler's house and saw the minstrels and people making a noise." All ancient nations, and the Jews furnish no exception, attached the greatest 2 Samuel, xxi., 9- 14; 2 Kings, ix., 28-34. Ps. Ixxix., 2; Ec. vi., 3. importance to the rites of sepulture. So do the Chinese, and death by drowning, or even in battle, involving the loss of these rites, is considered a calamity. Hence the Chinese proverb : "Better a dog and peace than a man in war."

Their views respecting the seat of passion and emotion correspond to. those of the conquerors of the Canaanites, while they hold an opinion which. clearly was held by these doomed nations, that the child is often taken away for the parents' sin. There is the feast of lanterns as with the Jews ; the marriage ceremonies recall many passages in Holy Writ, and illustrate the parable of the wise and foolish virgins ; while on the bridal Deut. xxii., 13-17. night the same use is made of a small linen sheet as among the Hebrews. In the morning this is presented to the bridegroom's parents. On the third day after marriage the bride visits her parents. She is accompanied by servants bearing presents in acknowledgment of their daughter's chastity. The love of gain among the Chinese equals if it does not surpass that of the Jews.

These striking parallels may be mere coincidences. But, perhaps, a fairer inference would be that as the roots of Greek, Latin, Gaelic, Sanscrit, Hebrew, show that they are referable to one parent language belonging to a people hidden away in unhistoric times, so the existence of customs among the Chinese almost identical with those which obtained among the children of Abraham, would seem to point to identity of origin either- ethnic or geographical.

In ages that may be described as patriarchal the Chinese race had already taken form and character, and now it is perhaps the purest race- in existence. The Jews, who in the second century before our era,, Mohammedans, who, soon after the death of the prophet, entered China; the Maoutze of the mountains, have all three a place and name in China, yet the Chinese have not mixed blood with them. The description given of the Chinese eighteen hundred years ago fits them to-day, just as Caesar's account of the Gauls describes, as Mitchelet points out, the Frenchman of the Republic, and it is morally certain the Chinaman of 1,800 years ago was like the Chinaman of 1,000 years before.

To-day the main features of the government of China are patriarchal. It is founded on the family. The Emperor is the father of his people.

See " China " Encyclopædia Britannica.

THE EMPEROR'S BUSY LIFE.

He is also their Pontifex Maximus, their high priest. Wang-Teen, the Supreme God, in whom Gray and Boulger recognize the Jehovah of the Hebrews, was worshipped in early times, somewhat in the same manner as the patriarchs of the Old Testament honored the God of Abraham. The religion of the Chinese is at bottom monotheistic. But this pure element is obscured by animism, idolatory and fetichism. Nor need we be surprised that the people have been driven to demonolatry, when we remember that the worship of Wang-Teen is confined to the Emperor and his Court. He stands between his people and the Supreme. He is the connecting link between them and the gods to whom alone he is responsible. He is the interpreter of the decrees of heaven.

Gray,vol. i., 86,and Brooks, M.E., p. 33.

The life of a Chinese Emperor is no bed of roses ; nor, when once the amount of business he has to get through in a day is known, will it be wondered at that he begins his day's work at dawn. He is assisted by a cabinet of four great ministers (Ta Hiasz). Not to enter too much into de- of the Chinese tail, there are besides six Supreme Boards for the conduct of government business. These boards or councils have special functions as departments have with us. They attend the administration of the affairs of the provinces ; the revenue; the superintendence of ancient usages and religious rites, and the preservation of temples endowed by the Imperial Government ; the navy and the army ; criminal proceedings; public works. Over each presides a chief minister. The decisions of a Board having been discussed by the Cabinet, they are submitted to the Emperor, who gives his decision by a seal, and makes any remarks he thinks fit with a vermilion pencil.

Then there are two other Councils ; the Too-cha-yun, or Board of Censors, and the Tsung-pin-fow, which is a board for registering the births, deaths, marriages and relations of the princes of the blood royal. .

Notwithstanding that the Emperor has a large body of ministers, and though some of these gain great influence, the Emperor's will is law .* He can order whom he likes whither he likes, and to undergo what fate he wills. Notwithstanding, there have been faithful ministers who pointed out evils and warned the Emperor that he was responsible for them. In 1822, the Censor of the Province of Yun-nau (in the provincial govern- ments there is a qualified repetition on a small scale of the Imperial Goverment), and the head of the literati in Shanting, pointed out to Martin, vol. i., Taoukwang that offices were sold even to highwaymen, that learned men p. 149. were unemployed, that the flowers and rouge for the imperial harem cost 100,000 taels ($150,000), that the people were cheated, and many other abuses. The memorial concludes : "If Your Majesty deem this statement to be right, and will act thereon in the Government, then the army, the

* Even the best and wisest rulers rather feel the weight of this terrible responsibility than desire to share it. Chun once said: "The post which I occu- py is the most difficult and dangerous of all. The happiness of the public depends on it." Yu said: " A prince has a heavy task. The happiness of his subjects absolutely depends upon him. To provide for everything is his duty : his minis- ters are only put in office to assist him."-Boulger.

For a full account Government see Martin, vol. i., p. 108-128.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

nation and the poor people will have cause of gladness of heart. Should we be subjected to the operation of the hatchet, or suffer death in the boiling cauldron, we shall not decline it."

The vermilion pencil wrote that this was a lucid and faithful report, but nothing was done. Four years afterwards, in 1826, the sale of civil and military offices produced 6,000,000 taels.

Elaborate civiliza- tion of China.

There is not a detail of civil government, from the highest political functions down to the scavenging of the streets of Pekin, which will not be found provided for in the ancient Empire. At every turn the traveller will find himself surrounded by evidences of the suspicion and jealousy of despotism. He will note that the Chinese people are really a conquered people, watched by Manchu and Tartar garrisons in every town. He will note, what Mr. Williamson points out in a dozen places, that great public works are suffered to fall into decay. He will pause in Arches to virgin- ity and viduity. many a street and roadway to mark the arches raised, not to victory, but to Virginity and Viduity, and unless he is a philosopher and fetches par- allels from the West he will smile at Chinese simplicity. He will meet with men driving wheel-barrows and carts, carrying a sail, if the wind is favorable, just as they were seen a thousand years ago, and as Milton has immortalized them. He will see Punch and Judy shows, as he would see Mandarins. them in the streets of London. He will see Mandarins dressed in those bright colors, abandoned for more than a century by men in Europe, borne along in chairs, accompanied by their servants and dependents, much as the Roman noble in his litter used to make his progress down the Appian way. He will see soldiers with buff and blue tunics-helmets suitable for warm climates, and armed with fire-arms made in Birmingham. He will sometimes stop to admire the quaint beauty of a pagoda dedicated to one of the different religious sects. If he goes to the theatre he will see the parts of women played by youths, just as in England in Shakespeare's time .* Lantern-hawkers. He will see the lantern-hawker with his great basket on his back and full of lanterns of every variety. He will admire the industry of the Chinese women of the lower classes, who find time not only to attend to their household duties, but to rear silk-worms, spin cotton, make cotton cloth, roll tea, but who yet are not always allowed to sit at table with their husbands ; and if the traveller is a lady she may see young Chinese ladies working at embroidery-an art which, according to Malpière, we owe to China. On the rivers and lakes our travellers will see men fishing with trained cormorants. On the roads he will often have to stand aside to let the Tartar courier, wearing the bright yellow colors of the Emperor, Bonzes. pass. Attention will be attracted by bookseller's stalls ; Bonzes-monks of Buddha-walking, yellow hat under arm and green umbrella open against the sun, or making a spectacle of their austerity, and begging from

* An Edict of the Emperor Keen Long (1735-1796), forbade women to appear on the stage. This of itself would explain the important part played by female musicians.

A COMPLEX CIVILIZATION.

the passers-by ; flower boys pedling various kinds of flowers in pots ; children with ingenious toys ; perambulating smiths ; pipe merchants with bundles of long pipes, and, of course, smoking themselves ; jugglers, surpassing those of Europe ; criminals in cangues,* or chained to upright iron posts, and fettered ; or in cages ; or undergoing the bastonnade ; . wandering musicians ; mountebanks exhibiting tame serpents ; money changers ; travelling tinkers ; quail-fighting, and cricket-fighting ; boys playing shuttle-cock with their feet instead of battledores ; wood mer- chants selling wood cut exactly like our own firewood; exhibitors of peep-shows. In a word, the observer would find himself surrounded with all the signs of a complex but antique civilization-stately temples, great public works, palatial residences of the Mandarins, the busy Great public little houses of the humbler classes; numerous canal-boats, ferries, ship- works. ping, highways-there are 20,000 Imperial roads-and near the great cities, which are walled in as in ancient days, fortresses which belong to a system of war now out of date.

It is not possible to rise from an extensive study of the literature, travel, Impossible to or history connected with China and feel any contempt for the Chinese. Chinese. despise the The feeling is one of surprise that they do not do more. They have vast resources ; they have a population which if warlike might overawe the world. But public spirit, freedom are not there, and an organized des- Despotism casts potism has cast the shadow of decay on those teeming millions. They are the shadow of decay. disrupted. There is no play of popular life, and the tyranny of the Mandarin is qualified, so far as popular action is concerned, only by secret organizations and the unsuccessful literati. These secret organizations have been reduced to a science by the Chinese and form one of their great drawbacks wherever they go. But secret organizations are not confined to China or to Chinese.

We have said no contempt can be felt for these people. They show Success in many great industry and achieve success in many fields of labor. They live under fields of labor. a despotism which would, in the course of centuries, degrade the choicest European races, and, if indeed they belong to the Mongol race they belong to a race which has produced great heroes and far seeing men, and whose fortunes at one time seemed equal to the conquest of the world.

A writer in the Edinburgh Review, for October, 1884, very properly writes that if we wanted to judge of the English people it would not be enough to see the population of the trading ports. We need he says to travel inland before we can say we have seen the English at home. Now all the direct knowledge many have of China is from observing the very humblest and sometimes the very worst class from the trading ports. In this excursus on China it has been sought to supply the lacking know- ledge, and thus not only to aid judgment but broaden the spirit of discussion.

* The cangue is not unlike the pillory. Two boards with two half moons cut in them are closed round the neck. The man's crime is written on a placard.

THE CHINAMAN IN CHINA.

The Chinaman in China is the heir of an old, not to say an effete. civilization. Educated and inherited tendencies make him an imitator, a man non-progressive, and full of satisfaction with his country and its. ways. There is no European nation which has not gone beyond the point where the Chinese stopped. His worship of ancestors binds him to- the Flowery Land, and his national pride makes him look on the ways. and customs of other people as barbaric. He is an idolator. Not merely his habits but his skin mark him off as of a race distinct. Only the pressure of the vast population on the least successful and poorest, classes makes these leave their country for a time, and such emigrants. come from Qwang-Tung and from Fuhkien, mainly from Qwang-Tung. Not a few of them are criminals, and the women as a rule are prosti- tutes.

Qwang-Tung has a population of 19,174,030 or 241 to the square mile and Fuhkien a population of 14,777,410 or 276 to the square mile. The fact that the inhabitants of the northern provinces emigrate to Manchuria shows that emigrants could, if necessary, be got higher up than Fuhkien and the fair inference is that the supply of Chinese labor is practically without limit, other than the demand.

Naturally only a rapid sketch of the Celestial Empire is attempted here. One less full would have given no information capable of aiding the judg- ment.

After what has been said it is not necessary to quote such witnesses as Rev. W. Loomis and C. W. Brooks to show that Chinese intellectual capacity is of a high order. Should they ever escape from the thraldom of the worship of ancestors, and learn to drill and fight so as to bring their soldiers even to approach an European standard, "the Chinese problem " will assume a new and, perhaps, not so interesting a form as at. present.

MORAL EFFECTS.

There can be no doubt that one of the causes of the strong feeling against the Chinese is that their immigration consists mostly of unmarried men and prostitutes, and it is said that the Chinese prostitutes are more: injurious to the community than white abandoned women.

PROSTITUTION.

The evidence is that Chinese prostitutes are more shameless than white women who follow the same pursuit, as though the former had been educated. for it from their cradle. This is what might be expected from what we know of Chinese customs in China. They sit at their doors and through Ibid pp. 20, and pp. a sort of wicket try to decoy the passers-by. They are bought and held in bondage and the Rev. Otis Gibson produced two contracts such as are made between these unhappy women and their mistresses. Such contracts are,

MORAL EFFECTS.

of course, illegal, but the Chinese women thus enslaved do not know this. Some have escaped from degradation and tyranny and taken refuge either See pp. 204 and 216 at the City Hall or the Mission House. Some of these women are kid_ Ap. A. napped in China. At one time there were about 1,500 prostitutes in Chinatown, San Francisco. In 1876 there were some 400. About $500,000 See p. 203 Ap. A. are said to be invested in the business.

The charge respecting prostitution takes two forms. It is said these women bring with them a most virulent form of syphilis, and that in a special way they corrupt little boys.

There are only two points about Chinese prostitution worthy of notice as affecting our estimate of the character of Chinese immigration. The Chinese are the only people coming to the continent the great bulk of whose women are prostitutes. White prostitutes are, as some witnesses testified, imported from Europe, and they are, in consequence of the debts they owe the keepers of the houses in which they dwell, in a state of semi-bondage. But they form only a percentage of the white women on the coast.

As to the Chinese prostitutes introducing disease, on such a subject the question of degree is of little consequence. But we think it is proved that they are specially corrupting to boys, and this for three reasons: In the first place, their training has, as a rule, left them without that small sense J. C. R.,p. 222. of decency which lingers in the breast of the white prostitute until she has become an utter ruin, physical and moral, and which would make her shrink from permitting the visits of very young boys. In the next place, being under the control directly of a mistress and indirectly of a com- pany of Chinese scoundrels, known as the Hip-ye-tung, force may be placed on them to extend their trade without regard to age. In the third place, the high value attached to money by the Chinese would make their pros- titutes more accessible to boys than white ones. Several witnesses proved See M.E .. pp. 24, 50, that boys frequented Chinese brothels and contracted physical contami- 354 Ap. A. also pp.180, 207, 213, nation. Mr. Briggs said that apart from prostitution he did not know See M. E., p. 1. that the Chinese had any demoralizing effect on the community. But ·several witnesses dwelt on the demoralizing influence of opium-smoking and gambling.

GAMBLING.

The Chinese are inveterate gamblers. In China it is not uncommon See M.E., p. 36,also for a man to gamble away his breakfast ; and in San Francisco and else- pp. 194, 222, 223, 241,. where they often lose at the gaming-table all their earnings. We visited 242 Ap. A. several of the many gambling-houses in Chinatown, San Francisco, but did not see a white person present ; nor is there any evidence that white men frequent these haunts of "tan" and "lottery." It must, therefore, be as an example that Chinese gambling is demoralizing to the whites, if it be demoralizing. These gambling-houses are owned by the Po-sang-tung. Both Bainbridge and Vinton think it cannot be suppressed. It certainly cannot be if, as Mr. Gibson says, the police are in the pay of the man who

Sec pp. 263 and 278. Ap. A.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

runs the gambling-hell. But, if the police carried out the law properly, the evils of prostitution and gambling might be greatly lessened, as might that attending

OPIUM-SMOKING.

The evidence is positive that they teach whites to smoke opium. There is a law in China imposing a severe penalty on a man who entices another to indulge in the too seductive drug. Before such a law came into exist. ence the crime must have been known. A priori, therefore, it is probable enticements would be made use of wherever Chinamen set up opium-dens. Both Cox and Crowley give cases in which whites had become slaves to opium.

To say that whites go to the chemists and get laudanum, or some equal- ly powerful drug, or had learned to use opium before the Chinese ever had a Chinatown on this continent, would be an answer to a proposition affirming that because Chinamen smoked it they are inferior to, or more wicked than, whites. But it is no answer to the statement that the exist- ence of opium-dens in a large city is demoralizing. You cannot multiply places of the kind without bringing forces into existence which surely will have their influence in dragging some weak natures to degradation. But this, too, is a matter with which efficient police could effectually deal.

There is some evidence to the effect that women have been taken to opium dens and debauched. But this crime has been perpetrated in taverns, and even without the aid of either opium or whiskey. In China, where opium is prized as an aphrodisiac, women are frequently attached to opium joints. But no such places appear to exist on the Pacific Coast.

We think we may here leave the moral effects of Chinese immigration. Mr. Briggs speaks of their presence as "a moral blight, because they never improve anything, When they take possession of a building, that building becomes unfit for occupancy by any other people except Chinese." This is rather a material than a moral effect.

We repeat, all that is objectionable in the Chinese quarter is a matter which could of course be dealt with by an efficient police. Given police- men under the control of the civic authorities and paid by salaries out of the civic Treasury, and there can be no difficulty in putting down Chinese prostitution, gambling dens, and the nauseous debauchery of opium joints. The belief is universal that the police on beats in Chinatown are in the pay of the bands of ruffians alluded to above, who own the gambling houses and brothels, and terrorize those who try to bring about in Chinatown a healthier tone. The efforts of one Wong Ben, a Chinaman who had some knowledge of English, and who tried to make a stand against the prostitute-brokers, showed clearly at whose door the responsibility for the worst features of Chinatown lies.

CHINATOWNS.

The filth of the Chinese quarter in San Francisco is dreadful ; or to use the language of Mr. Meares, "inconceivable horrible." The evidence .

CRIME AND CRIMINALS.

is that personally the Chinese are clean ; but their quarters are abominable See M. E., pp. 3, to sight and smell. It is said : "Look at the low parts of London or New 109, 118, 123, also :: York, at Whitechapel or at Five Points." There is a fallacy in this 222 Ap. A. reply. Those who inhabit Whitechapel or the Five Points are the dregs of a population tens of thousands of whom live surrounded by cleanliness or it may be every appliance of the most refined civilization. Shiploads do not come to New York to make straight for the Five Points. One has distinction. An important only to go through Chinatown in San Francisco to see that the fact that Chinese immigrants will herd together in a quarter of their own, is a most grave feature in this question. Wherever they go they do the same thing. Several witnesses pointed out that it was only the favorable situation and peculiar climate of San Francisco which prevented an epidemic breaking out.

Owing to the way they cook one should think the risk from fire would Danger as to fire. be very great. Oddly enough the weight of evidence does not support the natural probability. William M. Dye an insurance solicitor-specially employed by the Liverpool, London and Globe Insurance Company --- swears that for the fifteen years ended October, 1876, there had not been J. C. R., pp. 661, a single building of importance destroyed in the Chinese quarter ; that the State Investment Company paid a large premium to get the Chinese business ; that it was easier to settle with the Chinese than the whites, but that, however, some companies would not take their business for fear of incendiary fires. Mr. Bigelow, who represented the Home Mutual As affecting Insurance Company, said the incendiary hazard was the reason he did insurance. not insure in Chinatown. Several fires had occurred, and he expressed the opinion that in most cases they had been caused by white people.

Most harm is done when, as is the case with San Francisco, Chinatown As affecting is in the centre of a city and cuts off one part from the other. The land- property. lords of the Chinese seem well contented and will renew their leases, nor can we be surprised at this when we know that the Chinese pay better than whites, and that desirable white tenants could hardly be got for any of the houses in Chinatown.

Making a special quarter for themselves is favorable to

CRIME AND CRIMINALS.

The Chief of Police at San Francisco says the criminality of the Chi- nese is "away above any other nationality." Instead of being a quiet 15, 23, 25. race, as Mr. Bee describes them, the evidence from every quarter estab- lishes that they are addicted to faction fights, that where they are in the majority they are turbulent, and that many of them, certainly all the criminals, and Mr. Bee tells us there are 1,400 of these, are accustomed to carry, concealed about their persons or disguised as a fan, formidable deadly weapons. They are expert as thieves and burglars.

Mr. Bee, the Chinese Consul, makes a point that out of 6,127 arrests for drunkenness not one was a Chinaman. But we know that at the crime. same time Chinamen were debauching themselves with opium.

10,49, 50, 95, 97, 102,

pp. 198, 200, 211, 221,

666, 969. See p. 313, Ap. A.

See M. E., pp. 14,

A turbulent race.

Statistics as to

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

The Consul takes the year 1881 and notes the figures in the Muni- cipal Report. Out of 380 commitments for the year ending June 30th, 61 were Chinese and 83 Irish, and taking the total, native and foreign, the ratio of Chinese crime was as 61 to 732. Now, the population of San United States Census for 1880, pp. 380, 381, and pp. 518, 549. Francisco in 1880 was 233,959, and of Chinese 21,745. The number of Irishmen in San Francisco in 1880 was 30,721. Thus it will be seen that statistics for 1881, assuming the population to have been about the same as 1880, do not support the contention that the ratio of criminality amongst the Chinese is above that of other nationalities. For the year See p. 204, Ap. A. ending June, 1876, the white arrests made were 17,991 ; Chinese, 2,117.

As it has already been said it is hard to make arrests among the Chi- nese and still harder to obtain convictions. Mr. Lawler, the Judge of Police Court No. 2, testifies :

" As I have said before to you the Chinese quarter is over-populated. There are places of abode underground as well as over, and in a small room that a white man would not think of living in, a dozen Chinamen may be found, not only sleeping, but living and cooking in it. Chinatown is intersected, or cut up, also, by numerous small streets and alleys, and between a great many of the buildings there are communications like bridges across the streets and alleys, and there are means also of passing from roof to roof. Owing to these convenient connections between the buildings, and the crowded state of the Chinese quarter, it is often a matter of extreme difficulty to pursue and capture an offender, and the means of secretion are numerous and complete, there is no doubt what- ever, but that many criminals escape detection and punishment through these means. The most vicious element amongst these people is what is termed the highbinders, amongst whom there is a strong union. They do not belong to any one of the Six Chinese Companies, but they are com- posed of members from them all. They are a desperate class of people, and live, as I believe from my experience, in a large degree, upon means obtained by them through extortion, gambling, etc."

Mr. Ellis, the Chief of Police in 1876, gave similar testimony.

The difficulty in obtaining convictions arises from the unreliability of Chinese testimony. All persons entitled to speak on this head tell the same story, from the Honorable Judge Hoffman down to the detectives. And it stands to reason it should be so. Here we have people dwelling in the midst of a different race, whose language they do not speak whose institutions they do not understand, and whom they regard as barbarians. We know no form of oath to bind their consciences. What can be more natural as human nature goes than that they should lie when they go into the witness box, especially if doing so will save a brother Chinaman from prison, or redound to their own ease or profit ?

But the evidence goes farther than this. It brings us face to face with a most sinister element in Chinese crime. A society of highbinders exists, which overawes Chinamen who would be disposed to aid the law, protects the keepers of brothels, and undertakes, it is said, for money, assassinations. They live in fact by organized crime. They even levy blackmail on rich Chinamen. Mr. Lawler says :

TERRORISM.

"Not long since a case was examined by me, in which their mode of procedure was well explained. The evidence showed that, just prior to the Chinese new year, the defendants who were before me sent threaten- ing letters to a Chinese merchant, stating that they were without money upon the approach of the festival, and that they should be supplied with money, otherwise that serious consequences would follow a non- .compliance. These highbinders are much feared, and are through this tolerated, and are not prosecuted by many of these respectable Chinese merchants."

Dr. Swan, who was a coroner from 1874 to 1877, tells the following See M. E., pp. 26, story :- 27.

" A given case being reported, I frequently found Chinamen who were Terrorism of near the spot ; claimed to have witnessed the whole transaction; gave graphic accounts ; these would be among the witnesses on the formal in- quest. On appearing they would intimate that they did not understand English, and through the interpreter would say that they knew nothing about the affair, and upon asking him in distinct terms, through the interpreter : 'Did you not, yesterday (at such a time), tell that man (pointing to my deputy) so and so?' The reply would be : 'I did not understand what he said.' I never succeeded in fastening a crime on a Chinaman through Chinese testimony but once. In that case the witness was a little Chinese girl, old enough to be intelligent ; too young to un- derstand the danger she was running in testifying. That man was hung.

"Q. What do you mean by the 'danger she was running in testifying?' -A. As she was giving her testimony, and she was asked to point out the man that she saw do the act, out of a number of Chinamen that were there, she pointed her finger at the man and said : 'Him.' As soon as she said this he jumped right to his feet, and said something to her in Chinese. She started back with a great deal of terror, and went into the arms of some bystander, or bysitter I should say. This was at the inquest. The accused jumped right out of his chair and started across the room, and I asked the interpreter what he said in his Chinese. The interpreter said he had said : 'You had better shut up.' Of course this is all an opinion of mine, for the girl was very much frightened, and on enquiry I got hold of this idea that she was threatened ; and the remark was made by the Chinese police officer-I mean the officer that was on the beat in Chinatown-that if the girl had been older, and understood, we could not have gotten anything out of her, on account of the danger she ran in testifying against this man.

"Q. Could you be more specific as to the danger she ran ?- A. I should consider that she ran the danger of assassination.

"Q. By whom ?- A. By this man's friends or acquaintances ; and, as I say, all these matters are simply matters of opinion that I could not bring you specific proofs about."

The theory of Dr. Swan is only too probable if the habits of criminals in China and the Straits Settlement be compared with what we know them to be amongst the same class on the Pacific Coast. Dr. Swan con- cludes his evidence with this statement :

" When I wanted to get hold of one particular man, we always went A power behind to the interpreter of the company he belonged to, and the impression left on us by dealing with him, and by other facts, was that there was some power behind, that we could not grasp nor understand.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

See p. 414, Ap. T. Sir Matthew B. Begbie, Chief Justice of British Columbia, in Decem- ber sent a postcript to his previous evidence, which was very favorable to Chinese. Nor will it be improper to give his addendum, because the evidence shows that the same Chinese companies and societies which operate in California operate in British Columbia. He writes :

" There have occurred since I wrote some very notable exceptions to this behavior :

Terrorism by a "1. At the recent Victoria assizes, in a case of Chinese abduction, secret association. where Chinamen witnesses and interpreters were necessary, it was estab- lished to the satisfaction of the presiding Judge (Mr. Justice Crease), that these were being terrorized by the threats of certain Chinamen, alleged to belong to a secret association. Three persons alleged to have used such threats were summoned before Mr. Justice Crease, who took immediate cognizance of the charge, (the investigation then pending being- paralyzed, so long as the terror continued), and after hearing witnesses, and what the parties, who all appeared on the summons, had to say in their excuse, he fined them $500, $500, and $1,000 respectively, and in addition sentenced them to six months' imprisonment ; treating their con- duct as a very high contempt of court.

Suppposedattempt to pervert the course of justice.

"2. Another attempt, or suspected attempt to pervert the course of justice is just reported from Lytton. The body of a deceased Chinaman had been found under circumstances which seemed to point to a murder, and two Indians gave evidence before the coroner which implicated two Chinamen in the crime. But at the assizes, these Indians refused to repeat their statements, alleging that their former testimony was false, that they repented of it, and that they had been bribed by some other Chinamen (who appeared as prosecutors) to tender it. This is not a clear case ; though Mr. Justice Walkem, (who presided at the assizes), appears to be under the impression that what the Indians said before him was true in substance.

"It is only just to the alleged suborners to recollect that the neigh- borhood of Lytton has been the scene of terrible outrages against China- men, in all of which the perpetrators have escaped scot free. One case in particular, which in its wholesale unconcealed atrocity equalled anything which I have read of agrarian outrage in Ireland, the alleged ringleaders, though fully identified by four of the surviving victims, were acquitted by the jury upon evidence of an alibi which the prosecutors might well deem perjured-so that in the present case the Chinamen, entirely misappre- hending the principles of our criminal law, may have imagined that subornation of perjury was a weapon permitted by our courts, and that to acquit or condemn we only required the production of sworn evidence, without troubling ourselves to enquire whether it were true or not.

Robbery with violence.

" 3. There has been since the date of my answers yet a third case, con- tradicting my former experience. At the late assize at Nanaimo last week, some Chinamen were convicted of robbery, with violence dangerous to life, upon a Chinese woman named Ah Chif.

Six Companies.

See M. E., pp. 18, 19.

This brings us to a further charge. There are Six Companies which may be said to have naturally risen from the condition of things in which Chinese immigrants found themselves in the early days. Colonel Bee says they are benevolent societies. They are labor bureaus. It is ad- mitted that they take a fee from each member ; that they lend him money to go into the interior ; that they provide him with medicines and a hos-

HOSPITALS AND LEPROSY.

pital; that they arrange to send his remains back to China. The friends of the Chinese vehemently protest that these companies do not bring them to this continent under contract. But, again it is admitted that they cannot return to China until they are clear on the books of the company to which they belong. The inference is irresistible that they These companies are a good deal more than benevolent institutions, and that those who institutions. business manage them make a good profit out of the business. Nor is there any reason why they should not. And the power they exercise, already re- ferred to in connection with the steamboats, is still further illustrated by See p. 216, Ap. A. the evidence of Mr. Gibbs.

It is charged that they came in bondage to the Six Companies. There is no proof of this. But when the helplessness of the Chinaman without such companies is considered, it can be understood that they must have quite enough power over the laborer.

Nor is there any proof that courts exist controlled by one or other or Is there a secret all of these companies ; secret tribunals before which men are tried on tribunal ? civil and criminal charges. Colonel Bee tells us they hold courts of arbitra- tion, and one can easily understand how, holding such courts, the impres- sion would get abroad that still more was done, and persons were tried on criminal indictments before private individuals, in secret, and without a shadow of authority. The conviction is widespread and strong that such is the case. Mr, Lawler declares :

" It is often stated, and I think with a considerable degree of truth- that there are in Chinatown species of courts, in which many cases arising between these people are tried. For it is a noticeable fact that crimes are often committed in that locality, and the greatest diligence fails to discover any clue. This may happen where trouble arises between mem- bers of the same company ; for the heads of these companies have such a control over these members, that they can at any time prevent one mem- ber from going into a court of justice and testifying against another.

Mr. Ellis, who was Chief of Police, in 1876, suspected that Chinese

J. C. R., p. 165. tribunals existed for punishing crime. But he said he had no evidence of this.

HOSPITALS.

Their hospitals are evidently not of the best, and the evidence as to Do they care for their sick. their indifference to suffering is what we should expect from what we know of the Chinaman in China. Starving men have been refused food, and See M. E. p. 354, also pp. 224, 346, Ap. A. the Companies' sick have been put out uncured and helpless on the street. Still the Chinaman must prefer such care as they get at the Companies' hos- pitals, or else they are unaware of the character and hospitality of Christian See p. 217, Ap. A. infirmaries ; for the universal testimony is that they do not burden public charities. Mr. Gibbs says : "they have a dread of our hospitals."

LEPROSY.

When we arrived in San Francisco we found newspaper rumors full of cases of leprosy. But though the disease prevails to a frightful extent in No leprosy.

6

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

China, the evidence was conclusive that it did not at the time of our enquiry prevail amongst the Chinese in California. Mr. Cox, the detec- tive, who was bitter against the Chinese, said he had seen no cases. But J.C. R., pp. 199,200, in 1876, Mr. F. A. Gibbs the chairman of the Hospital Committee told that also pp. 216, 219, Ap. A. in December, 1875, there were fourteen lepers in the pest house. He also found that the prostitutes in the city were afflicted. When he tried to get them back to China he was interfered with by the Six Companies. .

Not improbable that they should We may say, generally, that there are any number of lepers in China, introduce leprosy. and that therefore there is a danger that Chinese immigrants may intro- duce it. It is a mistake to suppose that it is confined to warm climates. It has existed in Scotland and in New Brunswick. If the cattle disease prevailed in any country to the extent relatively that leprosy does in China, the cattle coming from the infected country would be subjected to- cattle diseases prevention arrangements. The sanitary condition of human beings is, perhaps, as important to the world as that of cattle.

SMALL-POX.

The Chinese are also accused of having introduced small-pox. Pixley says, positively, they brought it into San Francisco. But there is no con- clusive evidence to support his contention. Mr. King swears they have offered to embark people suffering from this disease and that more than seven-eighths show distinct marks of having had it. Mr. O'Donnell says they introduced it about 1871, but Mr. Humphrey denies this. We know small-pox has originated in Europe and in parts of this continent where Chinamen have never been. All that can be said is that it is not improbable that they should introduce it.

The fact is there are only two statements respecting Chinese immigra- tion to which it is worth while to pay any attention. One of these state- ments has relation to the

EFFECT ON WHITE IMMIGRATION

of the presence in large numbers of Chinese.

Statistics in support of the proposition that white laborer was kept out.

The adverse statement which is of the first moment is that the Chi- nese immigration prevented white immigration. Mr. Briggs contends that white immigration both from Europe and the eastern States was retarded if not wholly barred. It will be remembered that in 1882 an Act, excluding all Chinese laborers after ninety days after the passage of the act was passed, and that a yet more rigorous act was passed two years later. Now Mr. Briggs gives the following figures in support of his view. The excess of arrivals over departures in 1879 was 9,500, Chinese and all ; in 1880, 4,100, and most of these he says were Chinese ; in 1882, there were 17,573 immigrants to California. The immigration in 1883, that is of course the excess of arrivals over departures, was about 24,000.

Mr. Briggs as will be seen by turning to p. 12 fell into one or two errors here. In 1880, the real excess of arrivals over departures was

WHITE IMMIGRANTS KEPT OUT.

3,563, and of these 698 were Chinese, showing a great falling off as com- pared with the years 1873-75, when the demand for labor brought annually an average of 17,000 Chinamen into the port of San Francisco. In 1881, the excess of arrivals over departures was 24,722. There was a gain that year of 14,685 whites and 11,137 Chinese, 18,561 having arrived. The next year 27,404 arrived as against 9,831 departed, the white immi- gration being 58,113 against 37,113 gone away. The falling off in 1880 in Chinese immigration would probably have gone forward for a few years but for the steps taken towards restrictive legislation in that year, and it is likely white immigration, but for the same cause, would have remained about the same. But the new policy gave a stimulus at once to Effect of white and to Chinese immigration ; to Chinese immigration by impelling tion to stimulate all who could get in before the passing of the Act to do so ; to white tion. white immigra- immigration by leading the labor agents and societies to encourage instead of to discourage eastern laborers to go to California. This last remark is further illustrated by the statistics for 1883. The Restriction Act of ' 1882 had begun to do its work. The aggregate immigration was 82,913 of which only 3,536 were Chinese, the excess of departures over arrivals being 3,005.

The immigrants for 1884, up to May 31st, showed a total of 9,680- most of them white settlers, seeking homes. These were registered, and legislation. one-third of them, Mr. Briggs considers, reached San Francisco. He did not attribute this result wholly to the legislation. Prior to the legislation excluding Chinese labor, no movement to encourage white immigration was made, " because we had all the labor we could utilize. But the moment Congress was invoked to stop the influx of Chinese to the coast, then we began to circulate printed information relating to the State, showing its advantages and opportunities, and sent that broadcast into Europe and east of the Rocky Mountains in this country, and, thereby induced a larger immigration than would have come otherwise. Unques- tionably the effect of the Restriction Act was toward the increase of that immigration, because we could say to these people that the Chinese immi- gration had ceased, and they no longer were in danger of coming into competition with coolie labor direct from China, that was constantly coming at the rate of 15,000 or 20,000 per year."

Albert M. Winn, president of the Mechanics' State Council, swore See p. 245, Ap. A. positively that he knew that the fact that Chinese laborers were largely employed in California kept out white immigrants. He says that when men interested in labor organizations in the eastern States wrote to Labor agents advised white workmen to remain away. him to know what chance there was for employment, he advised them to 'stay away if they could get any employment, that the Chinese had filled all the places that might have suited them. As a consequence they did not come. "That is very common. I state this to them all the time whenever I write. When a man of family comes here he can only get Chinese wages and he cannot support his family. A Chinaman has no

restrictive legisla-

Favorable result not wholly due to.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

family to support and the Chinese can live on a very small amount per day. Therefore the white laboring men had better stay where they are."

There was an active movement, to keep away white immigration on the ground that where Chinese labor is abundant there is no desirable field for white labor. This brings us to the charge which is only another form of that which has just been stated. It is said Chinese laborers injuriously compete with the white laborer. On this head there is great diversity of opinion.

Shrewdress of the Chinese laborer or servant.

" I think that day has gone by ; the time was when they could not. Chinese to-day do not labor for as low wages as they did ten years ago. Their labor is regarded nearly as valuable as white labor, particularly in piece work ; they earn as much as whites. And many are laborers on their own account.

"Q. Then, after a time, the objection from the working men would disappear ?- A. So far as wages are concerned it does not hold as good to the extent that it did in the early stage of the introduction of this labor."

We have seen that the Chinaman is a valuable worker. Whether as a navvy, or a reclaimer of land, or a fruit-picker, or a domestic servant, the testimony in his favor preponderates. One witness after another testified that he drives a keen bargain. It is in evidence that after the new-comer has, by reason of the instruction of master or mistress, or because of availing himself of some opportunity, become more efficient in any walk, he demands higher wages, and if his demands are not acceded to he goes into new service. We suspect the uniformity of this conduct must be traced in part to instruction from persons longer in the country, and who make it a business to see that their countryman gets all he can. Knowing what we do of their ready aptitude and of their mode of life, we should naturally infer that the tendency would be in all those branches of industry they affect, for Chinese wages. to rise and white wages to fall, until a water-mark was reached above what Chinese originally got, and below the wages earned by white workmen before Chinese were employed. The evidence establishes that something like this occured. Albert M. Winn, who, as we have seen, was accustomed to tell white laborers not to come to California, having sworn that white laborers could not live on "Chinese wages," explains that he means the wages of Chinese when they come "green." Mr. Briggs, on being asked whether white men could not compete with Chinese, says :

On the other hand, Mr. Condon, who was examined before the Com- mittee of 1876, tells us that as to carpentering and painting, the sash, door and blind department is almost exclusively in the hands of Chinese ; that the best workmen could not live on the wages paid them ; that the white mechanic is consequently kept out of employment. The wages of Chinese carpenters he says is $1 to $1.50 a day. That there is plenty of white laborors he proves by the fact that a firm which advertised for two boys in the painting business had 100 applications. His evidence is hardly con- sistent with itself or that of other witnesses. He says the effect of Chi- nese labor had been to create an overplus of labor, while others swear that

CHINESE COMPETITION.

white immigration was kept out. This witness declares that thousands of white men were out of employment, that Chinese labor had no tendency to lower the price of sashes, doors and blinds to the consumer, and that in consequence of Chinese labor, sashes, doors and blinds which used to come from the eastern states are now made in California. If in conse- quence of the employment of Chinese articles which before could not be made in California are now made there, the tendency must be to lower the price of such articles, and it may be said in passing that the material result of the presence of Chinamen must be for the time anyway of the greatest advantage to the State. Mr.Condon says the whites are much ahead of the Chinese in speed. If this be so $1 a day would not be as low wages Comparison of as it seems. If, for instance, a white painter or sash-maker could do double wages. the work of the Chinaman, the $1 a day paid to the latter would be equivalent to $12 a week to a white workman. But the witness tells us the wages of the white mechanics is about $15.

Mr. Condon mentions box-making as one of the branches in which Chinese compete, and he says they get $1 a day. Yet when we turn to statistics prepared by Morris Lessler, and sworn to, we find that no Chi- See p. 337, Ap. A. nese are employed in making packing-boxes. The Chinese do compete in cabinet-making but not to any great extent, there being seventy-five Chinese to 1,104 whites engaged in this business. There is no reason to doubt that Lessler's statistics are approximately correct. He was Lessler's statis- examined and his statements are of a nature that, were they incorrect, they tics. could and would have been in a day or two contradicted. Less than a month, it is true, was a short time to perform the task he undertook and he was avowedly getting up facts for a Chinese advocate. Then it is in evidence that some firms, while employing Chinese, in fear of being boy- cotted, advertised that they only employed white laborers, and if they advertised misstatements, there is no reason why they should tell the truth to an unauthorized interviewer like Lessler. Still Lessler makes specific statements which were capable of being tested, and his figures, on the whole, agree with facts obtained from other and reliable sources. According to him there were employed in San Francisco in 1876, 15,324 whites, and 7,050 Chinese, or say forty-six per cent. of the laborers and mechanics are Chinese.

According to the census of 1870, the Chinese made 521 per cent. Chinese in the of the employes working in cotton and woollen mills ; 27,8% per cent. according to the field of labor of fishermen ; 25 per cent. of miners ; 10 per cent. of agricultural laborers ; and 1880. censuses of 1870 25 per cent. of nurserymen and market-gardeners ; 28 per cent. of do- mestic servants ; 2017, per cent. of laborers ; 71-7, per cent. of laundry- men ; 76 per cent. of traders and dealers ; 171% of hucksters ; 22% of workers on railroads ; 15-% of the workmen in boot and shoe factories ; 89,6% of the hands in cigar and tobacco factories. But the Chinese population in the United States had increased in the decade from 1870 to 1880 by 42,729. The railway draw on this immigration

xc

Fluctuations of immigration. spent itself in the years 1867-69, to again operate in 1873-75. In See p. 185., Ap. A. 1871, the immigration fell to 5,000, and in 1872, to 9,000; but in 1873, rose to 17,000 ; in 1874, to 16,000, and in 1875, to 18,000. Mr. Low, when asked to explain this rise in the tide, at first could not give any reasonable explanation, but subsequently said, the building of the J. C. R, p. 77. railway to Los Angeles and other lateral roads would, to some extent, account for it. " I have no doubt that that accounts for it partially ; and that the Chinese merchants here, and those having an eye to business, speculate on all these probabilities of labor as well or better than we can." This experienced witness clearly does not think the railway building would fully account for the spring-tide of Chinese immigration from 1873 to 1875 inclusive, and it is a fair inference that a considerable portion flowed into other channels of toil. Unfortunately, the census of 1880 does not enable us to say what number of Chinese were in that year U. S. Census part 2, p. 1359. found in various callings. It gives the number of those employed in the several industries, born in Great Britain, Ireland, Germany, Scandinavia, and British America, but classes all other nationalities under the head of "other countries." The gross number of persons in all classes of occupa- tions in California in 1880, was, 376,505, of whom "other countries" are credited with 101,452. In San Francisco we learn, that of those engaged in manufacturing, mechanical and mining industries, 9,877 came from " other countries." It is no forced presumption to say that nearly all these are Chinese. In 1880, there were only eighty-six Japanese in the U.S. Census part 2, p. 1399. whole State, out of 37,475 persons working as mechanics, in factories and at mining. The census of 1880 leaves us almost without guidance. But taking into account this fact, that the Chinese population went on J. C. R., p. 1206. increasing until the Act of 1882 came into operation, it is morally certain that the number of Chinese employed in the various industries, as given by Mr. Lessler, would have to be increased considerably to meet the facts Manufacture of boots and shoes almost wholly in their hands. in 1880. The manufacture of boots and shoes is largely in their hands, as we ourselves saw. In 1876, there were 1,970 Chinese employed in manufacturing boots, to 1,012 whites. In 1876, not a person of any J. C. R., p. 1211. J. C. R., p. 1212. nationality, other than Chinese, was employed in the factories where Mr. Lessler made enquiries. In 1870, the percentage of Chinese employed in this manufacture was 89,6

The census of 1870, counts clerks and bookkeepers employed in con- nexion with the factory. And this fact makes it necessary to add to the percentages given above of Chinese in thirteen industries. We have then nineteen cigar firms employing 3,197 Chinese and not one white. Ac- Cigar-making. cording to the evidence of Frank Muther, a cigar-maker, there were about 150 white cigar-makers in San Francisco in 1876, the union numbering See p. 242, Ap. A. 100. Of these one hundred some sixty were employed, their earnings by piece-work averaging $11 a week each man; the Chinese earning $6. The difference is accounted for by the fact that the Chinese are slower workmen. In consequence of employing Chinese labor the workshops

xci

are very inferior to those in the Eastern States. In a shop which in the Effect of East would be considered fit for twenty men, in San Francisco they would nese on the cha- employing Chi- work 100 or 150 Chinamen. This impedes the white workman. They workshop. racter of the have not the facility for drying the tobacco and preparing it. " If " said the witness " they would introduce the same system here that they have White cigar- in the East, the white men would make almost double what the Chinamen nearly double makers make get." But as the white man was earning $11 to the Chinaman's $6 he men makes. what the China was already making nearly double even under the cramped conditions See p. 243, Ap. A. described.

This witness swore that the Chinese, in order to obtain employment, have gone to the boss and offered to work for very low wages in order to obtain the shop.

Arts put forth by Chinese in order to get employ- ment.

" When they cannot prevail on the boss they will turn round and try to bribe the foreman. They have offered $10 for every Chinaman they J. C. R., p. 315. will put on, or $10 for every thousand cigars manufactured, and where the foreman sometimes will have a chance to make money he will take on the Chinamen.

" Q. Do you know any foremen of that kind ?- A. I have met foremen who have told me they were offered money. I asked them if they would come on this stand. They told me they were situated in business that they did not want to expose. I went to one particular one named Joe Betts. He told me he would swear that in the last few weeks he was offered money, one dollar for every thousand cigars manufactured, in the Foremen offered shop by Chinamen, or $10 for every Chinamen he would put on. It is money if they would employ from this fact that they have hurt us so much. Even when we can hold Chinese. the bosses, they bribe the foreman, and of course it is hard to hold men under such a liberal offer. When they offer a man $80 and $100 a week for a year or so, it is hard to hold honest men under such inducements. Temptation is hard to resist when it becomes that liberal."

The Joint Committee do not seem to have thought it worth while to examine Joe Betts. At all events he was not examined, and no remarks were made on his absence. The charge made here against the Chinese is Chinese a very serious one. It represents them not as coming into the market declaring to compete with white men under fair conditions, but as declaring war labor. against them and resorting to corruption in order to drive them from employment. Underselling them is one thing ; bribing foremen to turn them away is another. Such a charge ought to have been sifted to the bottom. As it is, we have nothing but the hearsay evidence of a prejudiced witness in its support.

The witness denied that the cigar-makers' trades union limited the Denied that cigar- makers' union number of apprentices. No conscientious man, he declared, would take limited the an apprentice, because after the boy had learned his trade he would get apprentces. number of little wages, and perhaps would even fail to get employment. The Chinese had got the trade. "They have got us, so to say, conquered." Asked whether if Chinese cigar-makers were excluded there would be enough white labor to carry on the manufacture of cigars and meet the demand, his reply was :

"Not in the State now, because they have been driven away; but New

represented as against white

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

York reports 3,000 cigar-makers walking the streets doing nothing. *- When people understand that we have been incorporated and they are itching for a change as times are hard, and they correspond with us, our general reply is : 'Do not come.' * * When I came here first I got a very good situation, but it has dwindled down so now that I cannot. make within $8 a week of what I did two years ago."

The witness, in reply to a leading question from Mr. Pixley, said he knew of a great many white cigarmakers and their families who had come to California and went right back because the field was better in the Eastern States. Another leading question elicited statements to the fol- lowing effect :-

"Chinamen, when pinched, will take contracts below the actual cost of the goods-that is, certain companies-from the wholesale tobacco houses. The monopoly of this town is the wholesale business. They contract to. furnish all the cigars, such brands and such brands. They have to give good quality ; everything that is not good they have the right to refuse. The contract will absolutely say that they have to purchase the tobacco from the wholesale house, and in this way the tobacco houses have the monopoly. They have got the Chinamen, and they have got the public .. They invariably beat the Chinamen on the tobacco, and get the goods they contract for ; and all the poorer trash the little white shops have to work up. Tak, Lang & Co., take a very cheap contract ; they have 400 boarders,. besides apprentices. This firm say they can collect 8400 to $480 a week from all their boarders, and that they do not. care if they do not make anything on cigars. If they can get contracts they will take them rather than lose their boarders."

The witness gave a description of the manner in which Chinese, when. uncontrolled by white men, make cigars. They take the cigar in their mouths and put spittle on it to get it smooth. There can be no doubt that they do this. We ourselves saw them do it. He swore they were accustomed to do something still more disgusting. He had worked in shops where Chinamen were packed around him thick as herrings in a keg. "They would get to sweating, and it was a common thing for them to take these cuttings and wipe their arms and their faces with them and blow their noses in them."

Partly because all this got abroad, partly because of the general an- tipathy to the Chinese, firms were accustomed to advertise " No Chinese labor employed here." In some cases this was true ; in others not. There was a strong temptation to keep the Chinese. As an instance of the way Chinese competition was felt, Muther tells how he was appointed by the cigar-maker's society to visit the house of Alexander & Co., 222 Battery street, which had sent them a card asking for white labor. The boss said he wished to introduce something new, and when he described what he wanted, he was informed that only the oldest mechanics could do the work. " What will your men charge me?" he asked. " Our organization makes no charge ; we hold no particular price." ""Are you a. married man ?" "Certainly, and so are all the oldest cigar-makers." "Then," he said, " I cannot use you. The Chinaman is not married, and

-

CHINESE COMPETITION.

he can work very cheap. . If you will introduce me to unmarried men, I will pay them enough to live comfortably, but I do not care to keep more than one comfortably. I am not responsible for other men's children and Chinese competi- cannot support them. I did not have anything to do with their exist- tion. ence." Muther left him, telling him he was a fraud as were all other ad- vertisers for white labor.

Mrs. H. J. Humphreys, examined in 1876, said, thousands of sewing J. C. R., p. 337. women were out of employment, that the Chinese were wedging the women out of needle-work, that the women got a little more per dozen than the Chinamen, and that these were starting manufactories of their own. Lessler's statistics showed that there were 129 Chinese employed in shirt factories, as against twenty-six white men and eighty-six girls, We ourselves saw several shops where Chinese were working on their own account, and in a space so contracted that if the same number of girls worked in it they would soon die of consumption. Here in one industry we have 129 places occupied, which might have been filled by white women, and the complaint was heard that girls were driven to prostitution and boys to become hoodlums.

We have seen that in some cases the tendency was for certain indus- tries to pass into the hands of Chinese ; in others into the hands of white laborers. We have also seen that there are instances where Chinese labor made oportunities for white labor. Mr. Babcock tells us that the white people are much better off in consequence of Chinese labor ; that la. bor begets labor ; that in consequence of the presence of Chinese the people get cheaper cigars and boots ; that the women get clear of the drudgery of washing, and that the working classes have clean linen oftener than they would have it were the Chinese not here. But Mr. Babcock has no idea of settling the State with Chinese, or giving them votes.

"Q. Do the Chinese come with the intention of remaining and becom- J, C. R., p. 714 .. ing permanent citizens, or returning ?- A. Of returning. Their rule is, or was fo merly, to return every fourth year.

" Q. Does the average white immigrant from the East come with the intention of remaining and becoming a permanent citizen ?- A. He comes with the intention of becoming a permanent citizen.

"Q. Then, what do you think is best for the future of the State ?- A. I think it better that it should be settled by white immigration.

"Q. Why ? A. The whites, we all know, are a superior race to the Asiatics. But, as I said before, I consider that cheap labor in a new country is absolutely necessary, and we should have the cheapest labor that we can get."

Mr. Pixley, not unfairly, then presses a question which probes the situ- ation to the bottom :

"Q. Then, you are looking upon it as a temporary necessity ?- A. No, sir ; I do not look upon it as a temporary necessity. I believe that a hundred years hence, when our descendants are living in California, they will turn back the page of history and see these proceedings, and they will then cast their eyes abroad over the country, look at the industries and how much Chinese labor has added to it, and they will smile with

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

derision at the ignorance of their ancestors. That is the view I take of it. Eighty years hence we shall see a population of 150,000,000. You might have one or two millions Chinamen, and what harm can they do ? I would not give them a vote. I would never give a negro a vote. That is my platform.

" Q. Is it desirable to have within a free commonwealth a non-voting population ?- A. Yes, sir ; I see no objection to it at all ; not a particle. The Chinese do not want to meddle with our politics. They are the most quiet, industrious and best people I ever saw. They are the most valuable laborers I ever saw."

Not a witness, however favorable he might be to the Chinese, would say he wished to see California settled up with them. This attitude on the part of their friends is as striking as it is instructive. If they are such good laborers such quiet, peaceable people, how comes it that those who regard them with so complacent an eye would not wish to see them settle up the country ? Here surely is something strange. We are told they have excellent qualities as laborers and business men, that they are in many cases preferable to the whites, but that the whites are a superior race.

There seems, too, to be an instinctive feeling of preference for whites, independent of any reasoned out opinion respecting their merits or deme- rits as compared with Chinamen. Several manufacturers who employed Chinese said they would prefer whites. And in domestic service especially we should think white girls would be much more welcome than Chinamen. Mr. Babcock testified that he never found any difficulty in getting white domestics, but that it would be difficult to get a white girl to do, as a Chinaman will, all the work of the family.

" The Chinamen are a great advantage all through the state, and I think the people in the country find a very great difficulty in getting white servants to remain with them, whereas Chinamen do not care where they go. I would rather have a nice tidy girl to wait on me, and I sup- pose you would too. You would show your want of taste if you did not. "Q. Suppose we did not have these Chinamen here, would we not have nice tidy, white girls ?- A. No, sir ; and you would pay such wages that if you are unable to keep these servants, you could keep only two, probably, and then you would be able to exercise no control over them. The Chinese make a balance of power and it is absolutely necessary in the condition we are to have the Chinese, in my opinion ; yet I do not employ them."

Mr. Bee uses almost the same language. He says the Chinese enable the well-to-do whites to hold a balance of power as against Bridget and the trades unions. From this point of view the Chinaman is regarded as the ally of capital in its fight with labor. Chinese labor is held not only to benefit those who use it, but those who do not. The latter it enables to get white labor at a lower rate and to exercise control over it. It is easy to understand how the workingman or woman must regard Chinese labor.

Two questions suggest themselves here. Is it for the public good that

alien competitors who are not to be regarded in the light of citizens, should be introduced into any country to compete with its citizen workers? If it be desirable, is it possible to control them, and those natural movements, which will rule them so that evils which their friends would appear to anticipate from large settlements of them shall not take place, and that no such grave consequences as the opponents of Chinese immigration dread, shall happen ?

Mr. Crocker says : " I believe that the effect of Chinese labor upon J. C. R., p. 667. white labor has an elevating instead of a degrading tendency. I think that every white laborer who is intelligent and able to work, who is more Mistaken views. than a digger in a ditch, or a man with a pick and a shovel, who has the capacity of being something else, can get to be something else by the presence of Chinese labor easier than he could without it."

This is perfectly true. But let us see where it lands us. In fact the tone of contempt with which the digger in a ditch is referred to, strikes the note of the social change, which Chinese labor largely employed would inevit- ably produce. It is a most desirable thing that ladies of moderate means should have their housework efficiently performed at a reasonable rate, most desirable that there should be an adequate supply of labor in a new country, and these good things should be secured if they, like the white girl when there is no Chinese competition, and the working man when labor is scarce, do not prove too dear.

We need not show that Chinese labor is cheap labor. That is its Chinese labor raison d'être. We need not stop to prove that it is docile ; that is one of- cheap labor. its admitted attractions. Just as one of the lower animals will go and remain where he is fed, so the Chinaman will go and stay for a certain time in any place where he is paid a certain wage, admittedly not high. What must infaillibly occur as Chinese laborers stream into various channels of employment ? The white workmen, not content with the rate to which wages are reduced, will if they have the money, leave the country. Those who remain sink lower even than the Chinaman, because they have to do more with the money out of which he saves a little fortune to enjoy in China. They become more and more degraded. It is in evidence that a man who has bossed Chinamen is not fit to boss white men, because be becomes too arbitrary, contracts in fact something of the bearing of the slave-driver .* The white men who would remain to com- pete with Chinese would have to accustom themselves to such bossing as the Chinese would bear. Out of Chinese wages white workmen could not

* Miss Corner, in her admirable sketch of Chinese history, says : "After all the Chinese must be said to be governed by the whip and the bamboo, the bamboo having the larger share in the administration. The viceroy bamboos the mandarins, the mandarins bamboo their inferior officers, and these, in their turn bamboo the common people; the husband bamboos his wife ; the father his son, even when of mature age. One of our oldest travellers says, of a surety there is no such country for stick as Cathay; here men are always beating or being beaten."

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

slave labor.

save money ; on such wages they could hardly support a family. There The same effect as would be but few instances of persons rising out of the rank of laborers to be small property holders, and as members of the middle class failed they would sink to the condition of "mean whites." We are stating natural tendencies. There was not time to have very grave results produced. But some of the most thoughtful of the Californians believed they saw signs of an order of society coming into existence not unlike that which obtained in the southern States, where ;lavery had produced immense wealth, but where society was rapidly losing everything like a middle class, where the aristocratic class was becoming smaller, and where there was no gradation from a proud and exclusive landocracy and professional men allied to them to black slaves and whites not less miserable. The Kearney agitators only saw that thou- sands of white laborers were out of employment and that the China- man was a competitor for work ; the more thoughtful looked further, and asked how these Chinese laborers were working with those shaping forces of the present, from which the future will take its outline and complexion.

They could not contemplate the struggle which had commenced be- tween Chinese and white laborers without alarm. The white man was handicapped. He was competing with a man come from the lowest class of a population whose standard of comfort throughout is low. He could not live on a shelf. He could not be content with tea and rice, a little lard, and the least attractive part of the sheep or pig. He had often to sup- port a wife and children. In all unskilled employments, which required only strength, laboriousness, patience, docility, imitativeness and steadi- ness, wages were lowered, and on many of the river bottom farms there was a Chinese quarter, a few huts where dwelt the Chinese who did much of the work of the farm throughout the year. In the same way there used to be negro quarters on the plantations in the South.

From what has been said about the worship of ancestors, the density of population in China, and the rate of remuneration it is morally certain that had there been no restriction, Chinese unmarried laborers would have poured in, and spread over the State of California, and thence over most of the western States, and perhaps they would have effected a lodg- ment in every State of the Union. Colonel Tong tells us they earn in China from $5 to $6 a month, and that they can live on 4c. a day at home ; but thousands work for $3 and $4 a month. They are, as has already been stated, intensely fond of gain. Can it be doubted their numbers would have gone on increasing indefinitely ? Mr. Low seemed to think without any restriction the immigration would have regulated itself. But he seemed at a loss to account for the large number which came during certain years. Every four or five years some would go back, but their places would be taken by others, until the Pacific Coast would rely almost entirely for unskilled labor on a fluent population, working at low rates, and separated in sympathy and race from its employers. The

A Chinese infinx possible.

result would undoubtedly be to add immensely to the wealth of Cali- fornia. Her resources would be developed. Her manufactures would multiply, and eastern cities would be distanced in the race of compe- tition. We should perhaps in time hear the cry for cheap labor of the "Californian Legislature of a quarter of a century ago, echoed along the Atlantic sea-board. It must be borne in mind that the wages paid when only 70,000 Chinese were in the State, would not be paid when there were 200,000 or 300,000. Wages would fall to that point that would prove a sufficient attraction to draw the Chinese laborer, who would not have been elevated while the white would have been dragged down.

It is quite consistent 'with such a state of things to have a brilliant society, as we see in'Rome during the Augustan age, when Roman art Mustnot be attained its highest perfection, but when half the population were slaves, wealth. and the other half a rabble without money or property. The yeoman was gone. The middle class, the ark of the sterling qualities of a community was gone, and the time came when the heir of the conquering republic had to bow her head. Such a society, without enduring stamina, has no sympathy with freedom, and, therefore, any element which has a tend- ency to bring it about is dangerous, especially to a young community.

The Rev. Mr. Gibson suggested that some arrangement should be made which would compel Chinese to cut off their queues before landing on gestions. American soil, and that those now in the country should have three years to cut them off or go home ; that they should doff their distinctive Chi- nese garb. This seems to us quite impracticable. To begin with it only skims the surface of the question. The difficulty goes deeper than externals. But even so superficial a concession to western ideas would not be yielded. Mr. Babcock says, they are proud of their country and attached to its customs, and that they would not give in on these points. Mr. Briggs seemed to think there would not be so much objection to them if they came with their wives and became regular settlers.

One of the objections put forth most prominently by Mr. Briggs himself is that the Chinaman kept out white immigration. But if this is done by single much more would it be done by married Chinamen. The added conditions would go but a very little way towards equalizing the struggle for existence. If they came with their women they would come to settle and what with immigration and their extraordinary fecundity would soon overrun the country.

We are inclined to think that without any arrangement whatever, this is in time what, were there no restrictive legislation, would happen. They are not more attached to China than were the Jews to Palestine and Jerusalem. Yet the Jew has learned to live away from Zion. For many years the Chinaman has been driven to live on rafts, and dire necessity would infallibly break the bonds of superstition. After living for some time in California he would accommodate his creed to his inclinations and interests.

dazzled by rapid

Ineffective sug-

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

In Manchuria, there are large settlements of Chinese who have definitely left the Flowery Land.

California and all the western States were menaced with a swarm of cheap laborers having none of the distinctive features of good citizens, and it may be with a lodgment of a non-assimilable race. For this is the real objection. The cries against their morality and against cheap labor amount to very little. The same cries were heard a quarter of a century ago in Illinois against Irish labor. But it died away when the daughter of the cheap laborer married the son of him who protested. Race antipathy is what is at the bottom of the cry, and though to the philosopher such anti -. pathy may appear narrow, a profounder insight may find in it a natural- perhaps a divinely-implanted-safeguard against great evils. The Hon. and Rev. Baptist Noel, protesting that the black man was God's image in ebony and was the equal of the white, was silenced by being asked :: " Would you like your daughter to marry a negro ?"

Races change slowly, but the stationariness of the Chinese race seems . phenomenal. Some of the witnesses declared their belief that no matter how numerous the Chinese were, the American would rule them. They had not duly weighed the effect of numbers in giving boldness.

Judge Tourgée, in his last work, "An Appeal to Cæsar," shows what a tremendous problem is presented in the South by the existence side by side of two races which cannot mix. If those who oppose Chinese immi- gration establish that mixture between the Mongolian and Caucasian is. impossible, and that yet a large permanent immigration is, they make out a case which a wise government would regard as requiring immediate attention. Describing the state of things in the Southern States, this. writer says :

" From the cradle to the grave, the white life and the black touch each other every hour. Yet an infinite distance separates them ever. In all this there is no equalization, no assimilation of rights, no reciprocity of affection. Children may caress each other because they are children. Betwixt adults fewer demonstrations of affection are allowed than the master bestows upon his dog. Again the negro has not forgotten either the rights or privileges conferred upon him by national legislation. The more completely he is debarred from their exercise, the more deep and irremovable becomes his conviction that the whole race of the South is. his enemy."

With unrestricted Chinese immigration something like this state of things would thirty years hence exist on the Pacific slope. Two free races separated by marked characteristics and above all by color cannot live side by side without conflict. Professor E. U. Gilliam, a southerner, writing in the Popular Science Monthly for Feb., 1883, says that fusion between the whites and blacks is impossible, because fusion is the resultant from social equality and intermarriage.

" The human species presents three grand varieties marked off by color- white, yellow and black. One at first sight, in origin and color, the race multiplied and spread, and separate sections settled in different latitudes

RACE.

took on-under climatic conditions acting with abnormal force in that early and impressionable period of the race's age-took on, we say, dif- ferent hues, which as the race grew and hardened, crystallized into per- manent characteristics."

These groups stand rigidly apart. No such fusion can take place Race difficulty. between them as takes place between the Irish, German, French, etc. The yellow and white or the black and white will not mix, and the anta- gonism of race is always intensified if one of two peoples has oppressed the other, or regarded it with social scorn. On the hypothesis of a permanent settlement of Chinese they would soon resent being deprived of the right to vote and as they became stronger in numbers and wealth, would treasure up the memory of past contempt. In the case of the Chinese the feeling would, perhaps, be stronger than in any other instance known to history. For the contrast between the whites and the Chinese is not as their enemies fondly and foolishly say, the contrast between the civilized and the barbarian, but between too kinds of civilization, the one modern and of the West the other ancient and of the East. It is not merely that the Chinaman comes as a competitor in the labor market, or that he is of another race, differentiated by physical, intellectual, moral, and religious characteristics, the whole stamped and sealed by color. He comes a highly civilized man, proud of those things which distinguish him as one of the sons of Han full of contempt for the " barbarians " amongst whom he means for a time at least to cast his lot, and ready to despise their institutions and, as we see in the case of Colonel Tong, smile at their most cherished dreams, as the idle anticipations of wayward children. He brings his harem with him. He in fact inducts into western life an Asiatic civilization, and the Chinaman would about as soon think of imitating American manners as the men who built Quebec and introduced the France of pre-revolutionary days into North America would have thought of imitating the manners of the red Indians. The snowshoe, the canoe, and one or two other things were borrowed from the Indian. So the Chinese would adopt a few of the white man's arts, but in the main they would remain Chinese.

Already they have created political trouble. Regard race antagonism how you will ; treat it as a natural instinct or as an unreasonable preju- dice; there it is and will not down; and if nothing happened more than outbreaks of violence amongst the whites, a case would be made out for considering the expediency of regulating this immigration. Mr. Henry C. Beals, the editor of the Commercial Herald and Market Review, was examined before the Joint Committee in 1876, and his statements as those of a journalist and a man of moderate views, are worthy of being carefully weighed. Though he pointed out that without Chinese labor the manufacture of cordage could not be carried on, that it was owing to Chinese labor the manufacture of boots and shoes was established in San Francisco, that fruit-growing could not be carried on without them, that. flour in large quantities was being "handled" by the Chinese and exported

to China, that they "bought and handled" more quicksilver than any other people, that the abrogation of the treaty with China would be an irreparable loss, that the Chinese merchants were men of the highest character, their credit A1, that for domestic service white girls could not be got, says, nevertheless, he would have the country settled up with white people, and files documents showing that in the spring of 1876 he had warned the Federal Government in emphatic terms that "the Chinese of California were sleeping upon a volcano that may burst forth at any time." Public notices had been given that the question wonld be violent- ly disposed of by an anti-Chinese vigilance committee. Mr. Beals' paper is read by commercial men, and he was under no temptation to pander to popular passion. Yet, in March, 1876, he wrote:

"Although the Chinese immigration into this country for the past twenty-two years is but a drop in the bucket compared with that which reaches us from Europe every year, yet there is such an immense margin of difference between the two that no parallel can be instituted. Euro- pean immigration is acceptable, in fact desirable, while that from China is simply detestable. * * * It cannot be denied that Chinese immigra- tion has been productive of much good as well as of much evil. They are our principal railroad-builders, and but for their cheap labor we would have to pay more for freights and fares. But, unlike European immi- grants, they do not, will not, and never can assimilate with our people ; there is a gulf between them, a yawning chasm, which can never be bridged. So long as they remain they will be a source of endless annoy- ance and a promoter of outrages which will eventually culminate in ter- rible bloodshed."

The man who wrote as above, denounced, on the 25th May, 1876, the daily press of San Francisco as responsible for the lawless raid which was being made on the Chinese. He deplored the disgraceful and cowardly scenes at Antioch, from whence they had been driven, and their houses burnt. Mr. Beals sees clearly that those who talk about cheap labor mistake the issue. The unassimilable character of the Chinaman, the race difficulty-this, he truly says, is the point which must be grappled with by an advocate of Chinese immigration, and this is the point on which its opponents, if true tacticians, would draw up their forces.

One has only to go forward a quarter of a century and then the Chinese might be able to hold their own against anti-Chinese clubs. But what would that mean, but the near domination of the Chinaman ? Then, when philanthropic or ambitious politicians would want a question on which to bring themselves before the public we might see a political issue-the en- franchisement of the Chinese. And if not, what would you have ? A large and increasing population separated from the rest of the community by everything which can divide and provoke hostility.

The instructive analogy of the southern States struck Mr. Beals in 1876 and Judge Tourgée's book should be read by any one who wants to form a far-seeing opinion on this question. He recalls, how a century ago a few negroes seemed not worth considering ; the sanguine temper with

SOUTHERN STATES ANALOGY.

which the citizen of the great Republic looked forward to the solution of all possible questions ; emancipation ; four million slaves called to the The Negroes in privileges and duties of government ; against them the pride, the know- States. the southern ledge, the experience and the wealth of the white race'; the massacre at New Orleans, when negroes and white men first met in a public capacity to organize a party, of which the negro should be a constituent element ; the Ku-Klux Klan, composed of the best white people in the South, or- ganized to make the colored people " behave themselves ; " the Rifle clubs and Bull-dozers ; the sullen, unsuccessful, pathetic resistance of the colored voters. During all this period the line of conflict, the picket line of dan- ger was that which separated the two races; and the slaughter at Ham- burg, and the riot at Danville, arose out of trivial incidents connected with race antagonism.

It was thought by optimists that in the course of a generation the negroes would have forgotten all about slavery, and philanthropists seemed to hope that after a further lapse of time they would disapppear. So far from this being the case they have increased at a ratio greater than that at which the whites have increased, and then they themselves increased when in a state of slavery. In 1790, there were 689,882 colored persons in the South, of whom 657,327 were slaves, the whites numbering 1,271, 400. Seventy years pass and in 1860, the whites were 8,116,691 and the colored Figures as bearing slaves 3,947,231; in 1880, the figures are respectively 12,420,247 and on the question. 6,039,659. The census of 1880 shows that in eight of the Southern States 48.8 per cent. of the population are colored, in South Carolina, the percent- age being 60-6 ; in Mississippi, 57-5; in Louisiana, 51.4; the average throughout the entire of the southern States being 32.5. In the entire of the United States there are 6} whites to one colored person ; in the southern and border States one out of every three is of African descent ; in the southern States proper there is practically one colored to every white inhabitant. As the passage quoted above from Judge Tourgée indicates in so forcible a manner, there is in eight States one colored living side by side with each white person and yet separated by infinite distance. One moment so near; . the next, the race feeling stirs in the breast and a chasm yawns between them which no wing can cross.

Most serious is all this were we sure it would remain as it is. But it The whites becomes much more so when we find that the colored man is distancing distanced. the white in the race of population. Compare the numbers in the terri. tory recognized in 1860 as slave States, at their first enumeration in 1790, with those of the census of 1880, for the same area, and you have a gain among the whites of 880 per cent., while among the colored you have a gain of 775 per cent. But these figures are deceptive, the colored popu- lation having received little addition from outside and the white having, especially along the border States, been reinforced by considerable accessions from northern immigration, and an appreciable increment from foreigners. If now we separate the border from the older slave States

7

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

A black belt. we find that in Delaware, Maryland, Kentucky, Missouri, Arkansas, Tennessee, Texas, the whites have increased at the rate of 1244.8 per cent. and the colored at 713-9, while in the old slave States of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, - Louisiana, the white increase was 340.2 and the colored 563.7. If we compare the population of the old slave States at the date of the first enumerations the figures stand : whites 1,066,711 ; colored 654,308 or 412,403 more whites than blacks. Now, compare the tables furnished in 1880. We have in these old slave States, in that year, of whites 4,695,- 253 ; of colored, 4,353,097. Thus the whites have only increased 39,753 more than the blacks, i.e., 1,066,308 whites show a gain of 3,728,542; 654,308 blacks a gain of 3,698,789. In the black belt or the old slave States the negroes are therefore outstripping the dominant race. But a further analysis gives more striking results. Compare the old slave States in 1860 and 1880, and you find that the whites increased only 33 per cent. while the blacks increased 43. Here we are face to face with a law by which in eight States the blacks must relatively increase and the whites relatively decrease. Let us now push the analysis one step farther. Let us look at these States in perfect freedom. In 1870, their population was : whites 3,681,554, blacks 3,241,057; in 1880, whites 4,695,253, blacks 4,353,097. In ten years the numerical gain of the whites was 1,013,099 or 27.5 per cent., of the blacks or colored 1,112,040 or 34.3 per cent. Note that we have not here merely an increased percentage, but a greater numerical gain on the part of the blacks. In ten years 3,241,057 colored people increased 98,341 more than 3,681,554 whites. And now if with the aid of professor Gilliam we push the analysis yet one step farther the results will probably make people who say : " What harm can a few Chinese do ?" pause; results which remind one of those school- boy calculations which used to fire all that was mercenary in the puerile fancy and which showed a fortune to grow from a farthing for the first nail in a horse's shoe, two farthings for the next, and so on doubling until the twenty eight nails were exhausted.

Relative increase of population.

In the United States, from 1830 to 1840, the white population in- creased thirty-four, the black twenty-three per cent. ; from 1840 to 1850, the figures were respectively thirty-eight and twenty-three per cent. ; from 1850 to 1860, thirty-eight and twenty-two per cent. ; from 1860 to 1870, twenty-four and nine per cent. ; from 1870 to 1880, the white increase was twenty-nine, the black inerease thirty-four per cent. From the twenty- nine per cent. Professor Gilliam takes nine per cent. as attributable to immigration, leaving a net white gain of twenty per cent. How account for the startling difference between the white and the black gain in the decade ? The solution, according to Professor Gilliam, is found in the superior fecundity of the colored race. Thus the white population, in- creasing at the rate of twenty-per cent. in ten years, would double itself in thirty-five years ; while the blacks, increasing at the rate of thirty-five

AN INSTRUCTIVE COMPARISON.

per cent., in the same period, would double itself in twenty years. Pro- What the census fessor Gilliam calculates on the basis of all these figures that the popula- shows. tion of the United States will, as the years roll on, show the following results : whites in the United States in 1915, will, in round numbers, be 84,000,000 ; in 1950, 168,000,000 ; in 1985, 336,000,000. The southern States, which in 1880, contained 12,000,000 whites, will, at the rate of two per cent. a year, in 1915, number 24,000,000 ; in 1950, 48,000,000 ; and in 1985, 96,000,000 whites. The blacks in the same States, who were 6,000,000 in 1880, will in 1900, number 12,000,000 ; in 1920, 24,000,000 ; in 1940, 48,000,000 ; in 1960, 96,000,000 ; and in 1980, 192,000,000.

If a still closer scrutiny is made it will be found that in 1900, or in fifteen years hence, each of the old slave States will have a colored major- ity. The United States will then have eight small black republics on its hands.

We do not offer an opinion as to how these black republics will use their power. We simply note the fact, and we venture to point out that though a long time would certainly elapse before the Chinaman would desire to become a permanent settler, historical analogy and a priori probabilities based on the effects of necessity on men's wills and prejudices lead to the conviction that in time, if unrestrained, a certain number would be found settled for good on this continent, and what has happened in the southern States enables us to read, to use the eloquent words of Judge Tourgée, " to-morrow in the light of yesterday."

Very interesting and instructive, from the point of view of this enquiry, The race of lower is it to note how, when the negro and the white man came into competi- the higher. needs crushes out tion in the labor market precisely the same results follow as from the competition of the white man and the Chinaman in California. The farther the colored man gets from slavery the more surely does he squeeze the white man. The white blacksmith is becoming rare and rarer in the upland regions of the South. The colored people have become masons and carpenters, and contractors for the plainer sort of mechanical work. The race is doing its own building. It furnishes its own religious teachers. It is beginning to supply its own school teachers. The next step will be to seize on its own professional work, and as the opportunities of the colored race expand those of the white will contract. What must be the surest and most momentous result of all this ? Why, of course, the emi- gration of the best whites. There is no scope in the South for the ener- getic poor man who begins with nothing and ends a millionaire, or at all events in comfort and independence. The manual labor is either held by the negro or rendered worthless by his competition, and there is nothing between this and the professions. Mr. Brooks and other witnesses spoke of the survival of the fittest, and we asked that gentleman what he meant by the phrase. Scientific sciolists who have never read a line of Darwin or Spencer, take it up and convince themselves that the best race is the race which survives. Not at all. In the struggle between races it is not intellectual power, physical and moral daring, well-knit joints and muscles,

Probabilities.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

which prevail; but the capacity to endure hardship, to perform with patience monotonous toil, to subsist upon little. The following reads like evidence given in San Francisco or Victoria, B.C., on the Chinese question :

" The white man cannot compete in any field of labor except the highest with the colored man at the South. He may do more work, and better work ; he may use more skill and achieve better results even on the plan- tations : but he demands a higher price ; he cannot live upon the same food and be happy amid the same surroundings ; he cannot compete upon even terms with the man whom he has been accustomed to despise. So that in the struggle of race, granting the continuance of present condi- tions, or those which are likely to prevail, unless there be some great and abnormal social revolution, the colored man is certain in the future to in- crease far more rapidly in comparison with the whites than in the past."

We have seen that one result of the presest condition of things in the old slave States must be the emigration of the best whites. Another re- sult, which as certainly follows, is that colored emigration will decrease. The security of those States, where he nearly preponderates, furnishes and will continue more and more to furnish, the strongest attraction to the colored man, and will more than outweigh the higher wages of States. where his amour propre would be wounded at every turn, and where he would, on occasion, be exposed to lawless violence. Like the laboring. class among the Chinese his ambition is not great. A little house, hardly able to keep out the storm, a bit of land, humble fare, this is all he needs. In his meagre wants he is kept in countenance by the Chinaman. But the want of self reliance which he has inherited from slavery, and which makes him shrink from the unknown-this defect either finds no coun- terpart in the brain of the yellow man, or else it is supplied by the support and organization of the Six Companies.

The supremacy of the negro in at least eight States is secured : *

Thousands like this man will leave, not because they fear the negro, but. because there will be no prizes worth aiming at, even if the struggle could be successfully maintained.

* A southern gentleman who was going to Kansas said : "The fact is I don't. see what's a comin' when the niggers git a little better off and a little more education and are really able to take care of themselves. They'll outvote the white man, outwork him, and I don't see why they shouldn't outgrow and out- rule him-unless they're killed off or kept down. I ain't in favor of that, and never was. If the law gives a nigger the same sort of chance I have, he's a right to use and enjoy it, I say ; and if I don't like it or can't stand it I can move away and let him take the country and pay for it. I sold one of my plantations to a nigger. He'll pay for it, too, and I don't see what's to hinder he's being a rich man in a few years.

" Wal, all this seems to me to be kind o' promising trouble in that region for years to come. I didn't mind about it myself. After outliving the Confederacy one needn't be troubled about any thing. I couldn't feel easy in my mind though, about leaving the children there to grow up and face what may turn out a heap. worse than anybody knows ; and I tell you what it is : I ain't the only one that's; getting these sort of notions down there, neither."

THE FUTURE OF CHINESE IMMIGRATION.

"The black," says Professor Gilliam, " will always, in the main, vote together. Why they are republicans now is readily seen. But should present political parties break up and others be formed, the blacks would still go as a body."

Mr. Swift tells us, and every man of sense will agree with him, that if the Chinese got votes they would vote en bloc.

There are three courses open before Chinese immigration, where unre- strained :

1. It may continue to pour in male laborers, capable of living under condi- Three courses tions which would make life wretched for the white man, and these as build- immigration, before Chinese ers of railways and fruit-raisers, and the founders of manufactories may do much good, while, however, doing great harm by barring out white working men ; keeping out white immigrants devoted to unskilled or partially skilled labor, competing with boys, needle-women, and with white girls, erecting Chinatowns, and bringing to the country prosti- tutes who tend, somewhat more than white women of the same profession, to corrupt young lads.

2. Freed by travel from the thraldom of the worship of ancestors, or See on this ques- driven by necessity, Chinese immigrants may bring their women and settle of an article tion the conclusion entitled "Over- haste in making our nation " in the down in the country. In that case, with their capacity of living on little, they would increase in numbers at a rate which would soon menace Over land Month- the numerical ascendancy of the whites. Meanwhile that state of things 1885. ly for January, already described, in which a middle class could not exist, would be brought about, and without having actual slavery you would have all its evils. A small aristocracy, immensely rich, destined to die away on its own effeminacy, but not until after its depraved pride had done all in its power against freedom and free institutions ; a yellow population of labor- ers soon to grow so numerous that the danger of rioting would arise, as much from their consciousness of strength as from the whites ; while many Chinese merchants would have their Tartar-roofed mansions, their gardens, their harems and all the appurtenances of the requirements of Asiatic civilization.

3. Or the Chinaman having effected a lodgment might be given a vote. " Most improbable ! " True. But not one whit more improbable than it was in 1859 that the negro should be allowed to put his ballot in the urn. And what would be the end ? The end would be after riot and bloodshed that you would have a yellow belt on the shores of the Pacific.

All this will seem to be looking far ahead. But we ask that the language of persons who have lived in China should be remembered. Those who know the Chinese know how much there is in them. In fact outside of European art, of war, and the higher mechanical employments, they can beat" the world, and Mr. Giles warns the Anglo-Saxon he may find this despised Celestial move only too quick in the coming years. M. La Venrede seems to throw out a similar warning.

It was, therefore, a wise thing of the Congress of the United States to

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

take action respecting Chinese immigration. Whether the action they took was wise or not is another question.

RESTRICTIVE LEGISLATION.

In consequence of the enquiry of the Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Representatives in 1876, and their report and local active agitation, three gentlemen were sent to China to obtain a modification of the Treaty, and a new Treaty was made. In 1882, after long debates, on May the 6th an Act was passed. This Act suspended the immigration of Chinese laborers to the United States for ten years. But those Chinese laborers who were in the United States on the 7th of November, 1880, or who should have come before the expiration of ninety days next after the passage of the Act, were exempted. The evidence that an immigrant came within these classes consisted in a certificate furnished by the collec- tor of customs of the district from which the laborer was about to sail. Full precautions were taken for his identification. Section 6 provided for the admission of Chinese other than laborers, the identification of such to be established by a certificate from the Chinese Government, giving in English full particulars respecting the holder. This certificate was made prima facie evidence of the fact contained in it. The issue of a fraudu- lent certificate was made a misdemeanor, the penalties or fines not exceeding $1,000 and imprisonment for a term of not more than five years.

By the second article of the Treaty it was provided that "Chinese laborers now in the United States shall be allowed to go and come of their own free will and accord, and shall be accorded all the rights, privi- leges, immunities and exemptions which are accorded to the citizens and subjects of the most favored nations."

The third section of the Act of 1882, as we have seen, extends the privileges of this article to laborers who were in the United States on the 17th November, 1880, or who shall have come in before the expiration of ninety days next after the passage of this Act. The date of the Treaty is November 17th, 1880. The Treaty was ratified on the 18th of July, 1881. The date of the Act is May 6th, 1882. Before the Act no one was authorized to issue certificates. A question arose as to when the law went into operation, and as to whether a laborer here at the date of the Treaty and who had gone away before it was ratified could not come under the second article. The question was, as a local paper put it, how bi a hole had been made in the Exclusion Act. Many habeas corpus cases arose out of the ambiguous language of the law, from the belief (sometimes groundless) of imposition, from undoubted evasions by means of Canton cer- tificates, and from the ambiguity of the word "merchant." The Treaty only excluded laborers, and it was hard to prove that one who represented himself as a merchant, or as interested in a business, was a laborer.

OPERATIONS OF THE LAW.

Judge Hoffman, of the United States District Court, in his elaborate judgment in the matter of Tung Yeong on habeas corpus, goes fully into Habeas Corpus. the question and admits that there were evasions of the law. He points out, however, what statistics already quoted prove, that the law had not Appendix Q. been ineffective. Towards the close of his judgment he says :

" Returns obtained from the Custom House show that from the 4th August, 1882, to the 15th January, 1884, a period of nearly sixteen months, there have arrived in this port 3,415 Chinese persons. During the same period there have departed no less than 17,088."

" It thus appears that not only has the flood. of Chinese immigration, with which we were menaced, been stayed, but a process of depletion has been going on which could not be considerably increased without serious disturbance to the established industries of the State. It is stated that the wages of Chinese laborers have advanced from $1 to $1.75 per diem- a fact of much significance if true.

"It is much to be regretted that the notion that the law has through its own defects, or the fault of the Courts, proved practically inoperative, has been so widely and persistently disseminated. Such a missapprehension cannot have failed to be injurious to the State, by preventing the immi- gration of white persons from the East to replace the Chinese who are departing."

The result of the clamour against the Courts, and the fact that the Restriction Act of meshes of the law were not sufficiently close, was that an amended Restric- 1884. tion Act was passed July 5th, 1884. This Act, which we give in the Appendix, (as the volume of the Statutes has not at the date of writing Appendix F. come to the Library), is very strict and removes all ambiguity as to the definition of the excluded, and the weaknesses in the certificate from the Chinese government are effectually removed. Still we hear of the persist- ent Chinaman exchanging, as it were, his blowse for a Spanish cloak and gaining entrance into the United States, notwitstanding one of the most stringent Acts ever passed.

Perhaps, as we have indicated, a mistake has been made in adopting the policy of absolute exclusion. Mr. Briggs, who was one of those who advocated the Restriction Act, says :

" I believe that if the Restriction Act had been modified so that a limited number of those people could have continued to come to this coast, we might have utilized them, and never have felt the opposition we feel to-day to the Chinese. I believe that in our fruit interests it would now be an advantage to have even more than we have. I believe that in some other industries, minor industries, the Chinese would play a part which would be more or less important even to-day if they were to continue to come. With that view, with the idea that we have had a scarcity of labor here, and will probably continue to have during some period of the year, for the next few years, because the industries are developing faster than the population is increasing, their presence would not be altogether undesirable. We are putting forth efforts to secure white labor, and I do not believe the Chinese would play as important a part as white labor if we can secure it. I think the advantage to us, and to the coast, is so greatly in favor of the whites that we can better afford to suffer somewhat from a want of supply, than to encourage them, and still put an chetael- in the way of the whites coming here.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

Questioned. "Q. What I understand you then to say is, that you think the labor, if properly regulated, would be very useful ?- A. It might be, but I cannot believe it would prove ultimately beneficial or desirable.

Mr. Pixley complained that Consul Bee had widened the issue when he spoke of the exclusion of Chinese, and the boldest of those who frowned on them only asked at first for regulation of some kind.

" We desire, if the Commission please, to say that the scope of the argument taken by the friends of the Chinese is broader than we assumed it to be. We have never asked, nor has public opinion gone in the direc- tion of asking, to exclude the Chinese who are now among us from all the rights which they have acquired under the Treaty and under the law. Nor has public opinion gone so far as to exclude any Chinese from coming, but it is more correctly chartered out and represented by the idea of Senator Sargent set forth in his speeches in the Senate of the United States, and Mr. Piper, a member of the Committee on Commerce in the House of Representatives, that Chinese immigration shall be so placed within the power of Congress that it may be regulated and restrained."

That the legislation of Congress in 1884 was not perfect may be gathered from the difficulty which has been found in working it. We give below the remarks of the American Law Review * for November 1884, on

* "CHINESE RESTRICTION ACT-INTERIM CUSTODY OF IMMIGRANTS .- The recent statute of the United States for the exclusion of Chinese immigrants has over- whelmed the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of California with writs of habeas corpus, and has developed much difficulty in its practical operation. The length of time required to investigate the right of the immigrants who had come over on a single ship, and who had been arrested for being unlaw- fully within the country, was found to be so great that to detain the ship until all could be investigated, for the purpose of compelling it to take back those who should be found to have been brought here contrary to the Act, would produce such injustice and such public and private inconvenience, that it was directed it ought not to be done. Then the question arose, what should be done with the prisoner pending the investigation, and the Courts were of opinion that he was in the custody of the Court and might be committed to the custody of the mar- shal or admitted to bail. Another difficulty arose touching the question, what should be done with the immigrant who should be found to have been landed in violation of the law, pending the action of the President in removing him from the territory of the United States, at the instance of the United States, as pro- vided for in the 12th section of the Act; and it was held that the statute by implication conferred on the justice, judge, or commissioner, the right to hold the immigrant for a reasonable length of time to await the decision of the President, pending which time he might be committed to the custody of the marshal or ad- mitted to bail (Matter of Chow Goo Pooi, 1 W. C. Rep., 535; re Ah Kee of 4 W. C. Rep., 19). If the right of the petitioner to land or to remain in this country is determined against him, the more difficult question arises : how is he to be sent back to China? The Act provides that he may be sent back at the expense of the transportation company by which he has been brought hither, or at the expense of the United States, and it empowers the Circuit Court of the United States to 'cause' such immigrants 'to be removed.' This it is held, neces- sarily confers the power to use the necessary means to accomplish the required object. (Re Chow Goo Pooi, Supra; re Chin Ah Sooey, 3. W. C. Rep., 603 ; re Ah Kee, Supra.) It is accordingly held that the Court has power, when the question has been determined against the petitioner, to

NECESSITY OF COMPREHENSIVE LEGISLATION.

the operation of the Act. It seems to us that a clause might be framed so simple and comprehensive as to do no injustice and prevent the possibility of such waste of money and of the time of the Courts as the present Act in the United States entails.

Mr. Brooks suggested that international difficulties might arise unless Probable interna the Canadian Government pursued a policy similar to that of the United tional difficulties. States. His idea was that Chinamen would come into Canada and cross the line. If they did, we suppose they could be watched as well as smuggled goods.

We learn from San Francisco newspapers that large numbers of female children are brought in the steamers, and the statements made that they were born in the United States and afterwards removed to China. How these children are procured in China need not be told those who have read how female infants are sold for small sums, nor the objects for which it is sought to import them. That such attempts should be made to evade the law shows how susceptible it is of improvement.

A large number of women also came on board the Oceanic, and they, of course, claimed that they were among those excepted from the operation of the Act. " According to Judge Hoffman's order," says the Call, "these women and children are taken to a photographer's, their pictures taken in the form of tin-types and they are then allowed to land on bail."

remand him on board the ship to the custody of the master, whether it be the Cases under same master or another who has in the meantime taken his place ; and if the ship legislation of 1884. has departed pending the proceeding, that the petitioner can be detained by the marshal, by order of the Court, till the return of the ship, to be then placed on board by the marshal, in the custody of the master, and that it is the duty of the master to receive him and not thereafter to permit him to land. In such case the party has only been provisionally taken from the ship, out of the custody of the master, who detains him in his character as master controlling the ship and not in his individual personal character. He is taken into the custody of the law, solely for the purpose of securing his discharge in case his detention proves to be unlawful. He has not, in contemplation of law, been landed at all. He is still under control. This power to prescribe the interim custody of the prisoner pending an enquiry by habeas corpus is necessary to render effective this writ. He may be bailed from day to-day, or remanded for safe keeping to the custody from whence he came, or committed to any other safe custody which the Court in its discretion may prescribe. The original commitment, if there be one, is suspended pending the enquiry by habeas corpus, and the prisoner to the fullest extent in the custody of the Court (Rex rs. Bethel, 5 Mod., 19, 22 ; State vs. Sparks, 27 Tex., 705; ex parte Ewen, 7 Tex., App., 289 ; re Kaine, 14 How., U. S., p. 134). Security may be required of his custodians for his forthcoming. {United States vs. Davis, 5 Cranch C. C., 622.) No other Court has power over him (Matter of Hamilton, 1 Ben, 455), unless it be a Court whose authority is, in respect of the question under enquiry, superior to that of the Court in whose cus- tody he is held. (Leary's Case, 6 Abt. N. C., 43, 47.) The habeas corpus Acts of many of the States contain provisions which expressly recognize this power. The Court may make such an order as the nature of the case requires. The prisoner may be remanded to the custody of the defendant or placed in such custody as his age or other circumstances may require ; or if detained upon a criminal charge, and the character of the charge authorizes it, the Court may take bail from him for his appearance until judgment is given."

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

CHINESE IMMIGRATION IN THE INDIAN ARCHIPELAGO AND THE STRAITS.

The Chinese who pushed their way into Central Asia, as far as Bokhara and the Khanat of Kokand, never showed any conquering energy or com- mercial enterprise on sea. Formosa is not twenty leagues from the coast of China ; the Philippine Islands not more than one hundred and fifty ; yet, it was not until 1661, after Europeans had shown them the way, that they colonized the former. The Philippines were better known to them, because lying in the direct course of the monsoons, and could hardly fail to be touched in the course of voyages to more westerly isles, rich in peculiar luxuries and abounding in those nests* of which the most exqui- site soup known to the Chinese palate is made. That, however, no Chinese settlements had been made in those islands is proved by the fact that when discovered by Magellan, or when half a century afterwards, conquered by Legaspi no trace was found of a Chinese population, no relic of Chinese art, or language, or institutions. But that the Chinese traded with the natives from a remote period there can be no doubt.

No sooner were the Spaniards established at Manilla than a Chinese rebel appeared with sixty junks bent on a filibustering expedition. He was beaten off. But from this time the Chinese continued to pour in and in half a century numbered 25,000. They established themselves as traders, laborers and mechanics, and notwithstanding the oppressive hand of Spain throve. They excited the jealousy of the Europeans, to whom their competition became odious. Distrusted and persecuted they natu- rally became dissatisfied and resentful. When in the year 1593, the Philippine Spaniards fitted out an expedition against the Malaccas, one hundred and fifty Chinamen were pressed as rowers for the Governor's galley, and were held to the oar with stripes. A wind rose and the vice- regal galley was separated from the fleet. It had not got clear of the islands, when the Chinese murdered the Viceroy and crew. In the year

The Jesuit Du Halde writes : " The most delicious food of all, and most used at the feasts of great men, are stags' pizzles and birds' nests, which they carefully prepare. To preserve the pizzles they dry them in the sun in summer, and roll them in pepper and nutmeg. Before they are dressed they are soaked in rice-water, to make them soft ; and, after being boiled in the gravy of a kid, are seasoned with several sorts of spices. As for the nests, they are found in the sides of the rocks, all along the coasts of Tong-king, Java, Kochin-China, etc., where they are built by birds which, as to their plumage, resemble swallows, and are supposed to make them with the little fishes they catch in the sea. However that be, this is certain : that the birds themselves distil a viscous juice from their beaks, which serves them instead of gum to fasten their nests to the rock. They have also been observed to take the froth that floats on the sea wherewith they cement the parts of their nests together, in the same manner as swallows make use of mud. This matter being dried becomes solid, transparent, and of a color sometimes inclining a little to green, but while fresh it is always white. As soon as the young ones have quitted their nests the people of the place are very eager to get them down, and sometimes load whole barks with them. They resemble the rind of a large candied citron in shape as well as size, and mixed with other meats give them a good relish."-Du Halde, Vol. I., pp. 302, 303.

SPANISHI CRUELTY.

1603, the Emperor of China sent three Mandarins to Manilla to learn whether "the fort of Cavite was made of gold," as he had been told. The A massacre. Spaniards took alarm, said they were spies, and gave out that they were forerunners of an army of 100,000 men. There was no such army. But their presence was connected in the minds of the Spaniards with an insur- rection of the Chinese which followed, and when a rich Chinese merchant, .who had become a Christian and lived on terms of great intimacy with the Spaniards, undertook to build a stone wall round their quarter the jealousy and hatred of the Spaniards burst into a blaze. They inflamcd the populace with the idea that the Chinese had determined to murder the Christians. With the history of Spain in mind it is easy to imagine the result. It was determined to massacre the Chinese, who retired in fear into the country and made a feeble defence. Twenty-three thousand were killed-the remnant escaped to China.

In 1639, thirty-six years after the massacre, the Chinese had again increased to the astonishing number of 30,000. Again they excited jealousy. Oppression drove them once more to revolt. They were hunted Hunted down. down and after an irregular struggle for several months, during which more them twenty thousand perished, seven thousand surrendered at discretion. " Manilla," says Crawfurd, " was reduced to the greatest distress by the loss of so large a portion of its most industrious subjects."

In 1662, Kwe-Sing-Kong, who had wrested Formosa from the Dutch, sent a Dominican friar to the Governor of Manilla demanding to be recognized as sovereign of the Philippines. The Spaniards at once ordered all the Chinese off the island. The Chinese either distrusting the motives of the Spaniards or rendered confident by the prestige and prowess of Kwe-Sing-Kong, flew to arms. The death of Kwe-Sing-Kong probably saved the island to Spain.

Half a century later the Chinese pressure was again felt by the Spanish Once more unjust- colonists. Complaints singularly like those made on the Pacific Coast to- ly oppressed. day were urged against them. They came, it was said, under the mask of traders. As traders they became monopolists. They carried off the wealth of the country to China. From being servants they became mas- ters ; they beat the Spaniards along the whole line of enterprise. The very form the accusation of monopoly took was an eulogy on Chinese acuteness and enterprise. They were accused of " watching narrowly the wants of the inhabitants and the demand for the different articles of consumption, which they kept back until they rose to their price." In 1709 they were expelled. But, with the persistency of their race, they slowly crept back.

In 1762, an attack was made on the Philippines by the British. It was planned and executed by Sir William Draper. The plunder of Manilla was the motive, and the East India Company stipulated to get one-third of the booty. The English landed with great bravery and after a gallant resistance took the place. The Chinese made common cause with the Act with the English, " gave them every aid and accompanied them in all their expe- English. ditions." The oppressive Spaniards could have expected nothing else.

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO

Java.

The fertility of Java, its commerce and the security afforded by an European Government attracted the Chinese in considerable numbers. The Chinese of Batavia had amassed great wealth. As usual they excited jealousy and the Dutch looked on them with an evil eye.

Chinese and reprisals.

They goaded them with excessive taxation, as Mr. Seward says the Californians have goaded the Chinese in the great Pacific State, and from 1730 forward their oppression took an active form. In 1740, a number of Chinese were forcibly seized and deported to Ceylon. Many of the Chinese in the neighborhood of Batavia flew to arms. They assembled a large force. Acts of violence, excess and cruelty were committed by them. Some of their countrymen in the city were put to the torture and on confessions wrung from the agonized wretches a story of a wicked and long premeditated conspiracy to destroy the Dutch was got up. Between the Chinese and the Dutch troops some small and indecisive actions took place. The Chinese quarter took fire. This, it was said, was intended to mask arrangements to murder the European inhabitants. The Dutch colonists were seized with panic. Then commenced one of the most dis- graceful acts recorded in history. A massacre of the Chinese commenced. A few hours after the bloody work had begun the Regent formally authorized it, and directed that none but the women and children should Brutal conduct of be spared. The Dutch fleet lay at anchor in the roads. The sailors were Dutch sailors. put on shore to carry out the order. These sea-dogs, influenced with rum and lust, burst open the Chinese houses and dragged out the indwellers, who were massacred. These fell, with the fatalistic stoicism of their nation, without offering the smallest resistance. "They made," says the Javanese annalist, " no more resistance than a nest of young mice." Of the Chinese not less than ten thousand fell.

Persistency of what yet is an The rest of the Chinese joined the natives, and the effect of Dutch unreasonable cry. cowardice and cruelty was felt throughout the entire Island of Java. The motive was the same as prompts the agitation in British Columbia, as prompted the Kearney riots in San Francisco, the jealousy and resent- ment the Chinese never fail to inspire, and the same cry was heard that we hear to-day-" they take the money out of the country." On this cry we have not dwelt, because it seems so absurd. If they make money they have given the country an equivalent in labor, and they have a right to take it where they like. After you have pointed out the absurdity, how- ever, the fact remains that the mass of people wherever the Chinese have settled have sooner or later come to regard them as dangerous intruders. This may be unjust, unreasonable, wholly indefensible, but taken as a fact it cannot be ignored. It is not merely that they do not create confi. dence ; after a time they inspire dread. One reason which will at once suggest itself to the reader of the evidence submitted, their ability-their usefulness in the humbler fields of labor, their commercial skill, combined with their phenomenal frugality. Nothing succeeds like success, but on the other hand nothing is hated like it, at least by those who think it has

cxiii

been achieved at their expense. Even Dutch shrewdness was no match for theirs, and Dutch thrift, in theirs, has met its master.

Oliphant shows us how the modern lazy Mestizo is overweighted by the See Oliphant's energetic and prosperous Chinaman.

Elgin, vol. i, p. 78 ..

From scenes in which so-called civilized Europeans vie with Chinese and Javanese in acts of barbarity, we turn to that which, while accen- tuating the distinguishing characteristics of the Chinese, shows them to us at the same time in the most pleasing light. We mean Chinese immigra- tion in the straits settlement.

When the graceful dusky race which had immigrated from Menangkaboa to the Malay Peninsula had increased so that the land' became scarce, a swarm was thrown off which peopled Singapore. It is probable the Am- herst Embassy led to the purchase, in 1818, of Singapore from the Sultan of Johore, to be used as a naval station for the purpose of promoting trade with China. The Chinese show at their best under British rule. We noticed the marked superiority in physique and bearing, and in intel- ligence of those in Victoria to those in Francisco.

The Chinese population, practically the result of immigration since the British settlement in the Straits, stands next to the Malays in the census of the colony, and at the three stations of Singapore, Penang and Malacca Cameron's Mala- number over 200,000. They are by far the most industrious and the 138-145. yan India. pp. most valuable people in these possessions. To their enterprise and labor is due the development of the internal resources. " In Singapore all the gambier and pepper produced is of their growth, and the sago is of their manufacture ; in Penang and Province Wellesley also the chief plantations are in their hands or worked by them ; and in Malacca all the tin, all the sago, and all the tapioca is of their production. Unlike the Malays, they are ambitious and become rich, and though this ambition has generally its origin in the desire to return to China in affluent circumstances, yet our Chinese ambitious possessions not the less benefit by their labor, and while many never that they may and become rich, attain the full realization of their aspirations, others as they grow rich return. become attached to the country and its laws, seek wives from among the comely daughters of the soil, and abandon all idea of returning to their native land." The tonnage that passes through Singapore is, it is claimed, second only to that of Liverpool.

The following paragraph shows that the Chinaman in the Straits Settle- ments is precisely the same as the Chinaman in California and British Columbia :-

"The proportion, however," continues Mr. Cameron, "of those who "may be said to have permanently settled down is small, and the yearly " addition to the Chinese population from birth altogether insignificant. But a small pro- " The number is kept up entirely by immigration. During the months of down. portion settle " December, January, February, March, April, fleets of junks crammed " with Chinese coolies arrive at all the ports in the Straits from the differ- " ent provinces of China. In Singapore the arrivals for the first four "months of the present year (1864) were 8,560 males and 109 females,

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

and for the whole year about 14,000, which is not much above the aver- age of other years. Were this immigration in no way counterbalanced, the Chinese population of the Straits would soon become enormous, but it may be estimated that those who yearly return to China number quite two-thirds of the arrivals."

The manner in which this Chinese immigration is carried on, and the contracts by which the men are bound down are most unsatisfactory, so many years of labor being pledged, but those upon which the females are brought into the country are still more deplorable : young girls from twelve years old and upwards being retained, as we have seen is the case in San Francisco, in forced courtezanship to a population where the males are as fifteen to one of the females. "Thanks, however," says Mr. Cameron,." to the demand for labor and its high reward on the one hand, and to the demand for wives on the other, neither condition of bondage endures long.

"The character of the Chinese has frequently been described, and no " change of scene or circumstances seems materially to affect it. They have " attained a high civilization of their own sort, and this keeps, and I think " always will keep them distinct from the other peoples with whom they " mingle. I have met them in the most out-of-the-way islands in the Archi- " pelago, where, perhaps, a dozen of them had formed a settlement, and had " gradually monopolized the trade of a people numbering many thousands, " without any concession in dress, in religion, or in manners ; they were the " same in every respect as are to be found in Java, in the Straits, and in " the seaports of their own country. There are good and bad among them ; "the best have bad points, and the worst a few redeeming ones ; it is only " as their characters and manners affect them as an element in the popu- " lation of the Straits that I have anything to say.

"One of the characteristics they seem to carry with them into whatever " country they may adventure, is a strong love of home, not a patriotic " attachment to China generally, but a love for the province, the town, and " the very homestead from which they come. This involves many good and " amiable qualities - a kindly regard for all who may belong to the same " province or district, and a constant industry and a careful economy, that " they may by a yearly remittance testify to their relations they have left " behind at home that they do not forget them. But from this very love " of home and country springs the great evil which marks the Chinese "population of the Straits. China is divided into many large provinces, " with nationalities as distinct as the different states of Europe, and this is " no exaggeration, for the inhabitants of each speak a different language. " Between these, from time out of mind, have jealousies existed and feuds " been carried on ; the people of the one are born and reared up in the " hatred of the other, and those jealousies are not obliterated by emigration. " The Chinese who arrive in the Straits come from several of these distinct " provinces ; and the people of each find themselves, for the first time in

SECRET GUILDS.

" their lives, thrown together in a town or in a district where they must

" lay aside at least all outward display of enmity.

" Instead of forgetting their national prejudices or postponing their in- Cameron's " dulgence of them till their return to China, the people of each province p. 142. Malayan India, " clan together and form a hoey or secret society. The avowed object of " these hoeys is to afford mutual protection, but they are often used for the " infliction of wrong, and have been found a great stumbling-block to the Secret societies. " perfect administration of justice in the law courts of the Straits. The " form of admittance to these societies is sufficiently solemn in the eyes of " the Chinese, and the oaths administered sufficiently binding, to afford " security against the disclosure of their organization, and always to obtain "implicit obedience to their mandates. Every candidate for admission is " led blindfold to the hall where sit the officers of the society ; all the doors " are guarded by men dressed in rich silk robes, and armed with swords. " A few preliminary questions are put to the candidate, when he is led into " the centre of the hall and the bandage removed from his eyes. He is " then forced to worship in silence for half an hour before any oaths are " administered to him. After this a priest comes up, and opening a large " book swears in the candidate : "You have come uninfluenced by fear, by " persuasion, or by love of gain, to become a brother ; will you swear " before God to reveal nothing that you see and hear this night, and to " obey all orders you receive from the society, and to observe its laws ?" On the candidate's solemnly affirming to this, the laws of the society are read out, each being separately sworn to. Some of the chief of these, for they are very numerous, are :-

"You shall not reveal the proceedings of the society to any but a brother."

" You shall not cheat or steal from a brother, nor seduce his wife, his daughter, or his sister."

" If you do wrong or break these laws you shall come to the society to be punished, and not go to the authorities of this country."

"If you commit murder or robbery, you shall be dismissed for ever from the society, and no brother will receive you."

" If a brother commits murder or robbery you shall not inform against Administration him ; but you shall not assist him to escape, nor prevent the officers of of Justice. justice from arresting him."

" If a brother is arrested and condemned, and is innocent, you shall do all you can to effect his escape."

" A number of signs by which the members may recognize one another "are also communicated. The whole ceremony has a strongly religious " aspect, and the hall of meeting is furnished very much as their temples "are. Nor would there be much cause to complain of the influence of " these societies were their rules conscientiously adhered to, and the exer- " cise of power by their head men confined to the settlement of disputes "between the members, or to the punishment of petty crimes. Or, could " there be but one society to the whole Chir ese population, its influence

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

" mignt be equallyharmless. But each nationality has one or more societies. " of its own, and they keep alive all that rancor and clan jealousy which Chinese turbulent "is imported from China. The Chinese riots of 1854 were originated and "maintained by the power of these societies, and almost all the fights which " so frequently take place in the streets of Singapore are due to the party spirit which they foster.

" The manner in which they interfere with our administration of justice " is very deplorable, as it renders Chinese evidence on oath a most unreli- " able test, in any case where members of rival hoeys are concerned, or- " where the heads of a society have prejudged the matter for or against a " culprit ; in these cases, every means is deemed legitimate to bring about " the purposes of the hoey. A case strongly illustrative of this occurred in "Singapore many years ago. A murder had been perpetrated, and three " men were charged with the crime before the police magistrate, on the evi- "dence of an eye witness. The prisoners were committed, and on the day " of trial at the Supreme Court the principal witness stepped into the " box, declared to having seen the murder committed, and gave all the " details which had been taken down by the magistrate. The man was about " finishing his evidence when the magistrate himself happened to come into. " court, and, looking narrowly at the features of the witness, declared to the "recorder that he did not believe he was the same man who had appeared " before him at the police court. A strict enquiry was made, and at last. " the witness confessed that the man who had seen the murder and given " evidence before the police had run away, and that he was told to take his " place and say what he had said. The recorder ordered him to be taken at " once to the bridge across the river, and there receive six dozen. No " doubt one hoey, on behalf of the prisoners, had procured the deportation " of the original witness, and another, determined that justice should not " be defeated, had obtained this substitute.

" Were it not for the evil influence of these societies the Chinese would " be unexceptionable, as they certainly are very valuable citizens ; but as " it seems that these institutions are ineradicably planted among them, I " think they might be taken advantage of to introduce a system of registra- "tion, so much required among this section of the population of the " Straits.

"But many of the junks which lie quietly at anchor there, in the harbor " of Singapore, could, if they had the power to speak, tell sad tales of " human suffering. The chief trade of not a few of them is the traffic of " human freight, and it is unfortunately of such a generally remunerative " character as to leave but little hope of its voluntary abandonment. The " demand for labor, and the wages paid in Singapore, are so considerable, " as to induce a large number of junks yearly to sail from China with men, " picked up and stowed away on board, under what misrepresentations it "is very difficult to say, and on arrival they are kept on board till a bar- " gain for their employment is effected. It appears that no passage money " is demanded from these emigrants before leaving China, but the

COOLIE IMMIGRATION TO SINGAPORE.

" made to pledge so many years of their labor on the condition of bare sus- " tenance only. Large premiums, at least five or six times the mere cost of " passage are at once offered by the gambier and pepper planters of the " island for the transfer of these contracts; and when the bargain is struck " the coolies are hurried off to some isolated clearance in the midst of the Immigration of "jungle, before they can have communication either with the authorities its hardships. " or with their own countrymen in town. It is not, however, by the en- " durance of cruelty or of unreasonably long terms of servitude, when the " men are arrived, that the laws of humanity are in much danger of viola- "tion. One or two years at most, and the new arrivals become acquainted " with their rights as English subjects and with the knowledge how to en- "force them. The danger is in the overcrowding of the vessels that bring " them ; in this the poor fellows have not even the protection that is secured " to the African slave, in so far that by their death, though there may be a " loss of profit, there can be none of capital to the shipper. The men cost " nothing, and the more the shipper can cram into his vessel the greater " must be his profit. It would be a better speculation for the trader, "whose junk could only carry properly 300 men, to take on board 600, "and lose 250 on the way down, than it would be for him to start with his " legitimate number and land them all safely ; for, in the first case, he " would bring 350 men to market, and in the other only 300. That this " process of reasoning is actually put inpractice by the Chinese there was " not long ago ample and very mournful evidence to prove. Two of these """ passenger junks had arrived in the harbor, and had remained unnoticed " for about a week, during which the owners had bargained for the engage- " ment of most of their cargo. At this time two dead bodies were found " floating in the harbor; an inquest was held, and it then transpired that " one of these two junks, on her way down from China, had lost 250 men "out of 600, and the other 200 out of 400. The bodies upon which the " coroner's inquest was held were two of the sickly passengers, who had " died after arrival, and whose corpses the owners, forgetful that they were "now in harbor, had tossed into the water, as doubtless they daily had the " bodies of their companions on the voyage from China. It is needless to " say that no Europeans are in any way engaged in this traffic.

"They first combine among themselves to get as much out of each other Thomson's " as they possibly can, and when practicable to monopolize trade and rule lacca, Indo-China, "Straits of Ma- " the markets; and then, feeling the strength of their own organization, the and China," p. 14. " societies set up laws for the rule and protection of their members, and in " defiance of the Local Government. The congsee, or guild, thus drifts Guilds. " from a purely commercial into a semi-commercial, semi-political league, "and more than once has menaced the power of petty states, by making " efforts to throw off the yoke which rested so lightly on its shoulders. The " disturbances at Perak are the latest development of this tendency, and "we have had many previous instances of the same insubordination in " Penang, and elsewhere.

8

Coolie labor and

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

Feuds of immi- grants imported. Thomson's "Mallacca, &c," p. 15.

Emigrate from Qwang-Tung.

Penang,

Ibid. pp. 44 to 48. Guilds.

"Nor are these the only dangers ; the feuds of the immigrants are im- " ported with them, and break out again as soon as they have set foot on " foreign soil. Thus, in Penang not long ago, there were two Chinese " societies, known as, if I remember aright, the Hilum and Hokien congsees, " that is the Hainan and Fukien societies. The members of the one were " all men from the island of Hainan in Qwang-Tung, and the other men "from the Fukien Province. The two Provinces are said, at an early "period in Chinese history, to have formed independent states, and the " dialects spoken are still so widely different, that natives of Qwang-Tung " are looked upon by the lower orders in the Fukien country as foreigners. "I was present on one occasion in Penang at a village which, on the pre- "vious night, had been sacked and burned by the members of an opposing "clan, and it required strong measures to put down these faction fights.

"Guilds and secret societies would seem almost indispensable to the " individual existence and social cohesion of the Chinese who settle them- "selves in foreign lands. If this were not really the case, it would be hard "to say why we tolerate native institutions of this sort in the Straits settle- " ments at all, for they have proved themselves, and still continue to be, " the cause of constant trouble to the Government. Avowedly established " to aid the Chinese in holding their own, not in commercial circles only, Effect of secret societies in pre- " but politically against the authorities, and to set our laws, if need be, at venting the detec- " defiance, it can nevertheless hardly be doubted that some of the rules laid tion of crime. "down for the guidance of their members are good ones, and embody pre "cepts of the highest moral excellence ; but other most objectionable in- " structions are to be met with, of which the following affords a good exam- "ple, and from it we may perceive the reason why our officials, both in the "Straits and in China, are so often baffled in detecting crime. If a brother "commits murder or robbery, you shall not inform against him, but " you shall not assist him to escape, nor prevent the officers of justice from "arresting him. In connection with the foregoing, let us take another of "their regulations. If you do wrong, or break these laws, you shall come "to the society to be punished, and not go to the authorities of the country. "From the two specimens here given, we can get some insight into the "obstacles which the Chinese secret societies manage to raise up to shield " offenders from justice. So far as my half score of years experience goes, " I believe that under the rule first quoted a Chinaman is clearly enjoined "to conceal the facts of a brother's crime even in a court of law ; and as "perjury on behalf of a friend is esteemed an undoubted sign of high moral "rectitude, and as in our courts a false witness has no torture to dread, no "rack nor thumbscrews, the successful disclosers of secrets in China, he " lies without let or hindrance, and thus the all-powerful society so effect "ually conceals a member's guilt as to render Chinese testimony practically " useless.

" These societies are imitations of similar institutions in every Province. " of the Chinese Empire, where the gentry combine to resist the oppression

BRAVES AND FIGHTING MEN.

" of a despotic government, and the peasantry unite in clans and guilds " to limit the power of local officials and of the gentry, and to promote " their own commercial and social interests. The Chinaman, however poor Self-complacency. " he may be, has great faith in the infinite superiority of his own country, " government and people, over all others ; and when he emigrates to some " foreign land he at once unites in solemn league with his clansman to resist In a foreign land " what he honestly deems its barbarous laws and usages. He has no belief unites to resist. " in a liberal and pure form of administration. After years spent, it may " be, in some English colony or in America, he will yet be unable to shake " off the feeling that he, in a great measure, owes his success abroad to the " protecting influence of some powerful clan or guild.

"Such societies were at the bottom of the disturbances that threatened "' Singapore in 1872, and the principal rioters concerned on that occasion Riots and " were of the class described as the " Sam-Sings," or fighting men, whereof " each society has always a certain number in its pay.

Singapore in 1872.

" The immediate cause of these riots was the enforcement, for the first Thomson's " time, of a new ordinance, designed to regulate or 'suppress,' as the Chi- p. 46. " Malacca &c.," " nese chose to believe, a certain class of street hawkers. These hawkers, " always useful, if not always innocent members of a Chinese community " in Singapore and elsewhere in the East, naturally felt aggrieved at having " the prospects of their livelihood curtailed. Some of them went so far as " to resist the rough interference of the police. Their case was taken up Fighting men. " by the fighting men in various quarters of the town, the Sam-Sings, whom There would seem " Mr. Whampoa (an old Chinese gentleman for many years resident in fighting men- to be a class of " Singapore) thus describes :-- ' They live by looting, and are on the watch braves." " for any excuse for exercising their talents. Each hoey, or society, must Criminals, " have so many of them, but I do not know any means of ascertaining " their number. I suppose they are paid by the hoeys and brothels. They " are regular fighting people, and are paid so much a month. If there is " any disturbance, these people go out in looting parties ; whether ordered Headmen. " by the head men or not, I cannot say ; perhaps they do it on their own " account.' From the same report I gather that such characters are at the " present time plentiful, as they have been driven out of the neigborhood Criminals driven " of Swatow, in the south of China. In a previous work, I have noticed out of China. " the disturbed state of a part of the Province of Qwang-Tung, and the " strong measures taken by 'Juilin,' the present Governor-General of the " two Kwang, for the restoration of order. But some of the lawless " vagabonds who escaped the vengeance of Juilin have settled in Singapore " and other British possessions, and there under the protecting wings of " their guilds they obtain frequent and lucrative employment in the shape Find more protec- " of pillage or perhaps murder. At first sight it seems strange that the rule than under tion under British " Sam-Sings should find scope for their villanies in a British colony ; even ernment of the corrupt gov- " greater scope, one would be apt to imagine, than they find under the land. own disorganized " corrupt government of ther own disorganized land.

" But any disinterested observer who has travelled through China will

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

"agree with me in this : that however far behind in other respects, the "Tartar rulers, when it suits their convenience (except when the population "is in actual revolt), know very well how to deal with and keep down " marauders with a very strong hand; so much so is this the case, indeed, Scum of popula- tion. " that the scum of the population is frequently driven to seek refuge in " emigration to more congenial climes. One element which operates suc- "cessfully in maintaining order in China is the superstitious reverence "which the Chinese have for their parents. Should a son commit a crime Parents punished " and abscond, his parents are liable to be punished in his stead. This law, for criminal children. "even supposing it were put in force in a foreign land, would not affect the "immigrants, as they seldom bring their wives or parents with them; and " to this fact alone-the absence, that is, of the strong family ties held so " sacred by the race-we may attribute much of the difficulty encountered "by our authorities in dealing with the crime and vice of this section of the "population. It must also be borne in mind that a Chinese ruffian, who "would soon be brought to justice (unless he could purchase immunity) if "he were practising on his countrymen in a Chinese city, enjoys, on the "contrary, the countenance and support of his compatriots in a town such "as Singapore. For there he commits his depredations on men of foreign "extraction; and the avenger of blood from whom he is hidden away is, "after all, only an officer of those 'white devils,' whom it is the China- " man's delight anywhere and everywhere to oppose.

In a foreign city a Chinese criminal enjoys the countenance of his countrymen.

Thomson's "Malacca," etc., pp. 64, 65. Why wealthy Chinamen are not robbed.

Coolness of Chi- nese burglars.

" If we knew nothing of Chinese clanship and Chinese guilds, we should "think it strange that the wealthier Chinamen are rarely made the victims " of the great gang robberies that, during my time, used frequently to occur. " These robberies are perpetrated by bands of ruffians, numbering at times " as many as a hundred strong, who surround and pillage a house that is "always the residence of a foreigner. Chinese thieves are thorough experts "at their profession, adopting the most ingenious devices to attain their "infamous ends. I recollect a burglary which once took place at a friend's " house, when the thief found his way into the principal bedroom and deli- " berately used up half a box of matches before he could get the candle to " light. His patience being rewarded at last, he proceeded with equal cool- "ness in the plunder of the apartment, not forgetting to search beneath " the pillow, where he secured a revolver and a watch. These Chinese rob- " bers are reported to be able to stupefy their victims by using some nar- " cotic known only to themselves. I have no doubt this was done in the "case just referred to, by the agency of the Chinese house-servants, who, " perhaps, introduced the drug to my friend's bed.

Chinese crime.

"Chinese, when it suits their purpose, do not stick at trifles, as may be " gathered from the fact that a Chinaman, esteemed a respectable member "of society attempted, on one occasion, to poison the whole foreign com- "munity of Hong-Kong with the bread he supplied. The Malays have "told me of cases where, as they averred, the cunning Chinese thief passes " the doorway of the house to be pillaged, and tosses in a handful of rice

CHINESE ENTERPRISE IN THE STRAITS.

" impregnated with some aromatic drug. This drug soon sends the inmates " off into a deep repose from which they will seldom awaken till long after "the robber has finished his undertaking, and that in the complete and " deliberate style which suits the taste of the Chinese.

" I have been," says Mr. Westgarth, " to Singapore, as well as he, and Proceedings of " I have noticed the excellent bearing of the Chinese, so much so that I do Institute, Vol. ix, Royal Colonial "not see how Singapore could get on without them ; in fact it may be p. 67. " called a British colony based upon Chinese labor. It is a prosperous "colony, the labor element depending entirely, or all but existing, upon " Chinamen. We might say the same of other such colonies. We must " remember there are two classes of colonies in our Empire. There is the " tropical colony, where our race cannot live as the general laboring popu- " lation, and where we must have other races. There is again a colony of "the British race."

" It is," says Mr. Tidman, "twenty years since I first knew the Chi- Ibid. p. 57. "nese, and I have seen them as colonists in three distinct European com- "munities. First, in Borneo, under the Rajah, then Sir James Brooke ; "next, in the Straits settlements ; and lastly, in the Dutch Islands of Java. " I have had much to do with him in my capacity as magistrate, merchant, "manufacturer, planter, and miner, and my knowledge of them in one capa- " city has verified my experience of them in another. I do not hesitate to Chinese character "say that they are pre-eminent among Asiatics for frugality, enterprise,

"and indomitable energy." He goes on to say that the Chinaman comes of a race that is law respecting.

" The morality of no people that I know of," says Cameron, "varies so much Crime. " with their circumstances as that of the Chinese. From among the poorer Cameron's Mala- " and lower orders our criminal calendars are chiefly filled ; they supply all yan India, p. 146. " sorts of offenders, thieves and housebreakers in the greatest number ; nor do " they appear to be very straightforward in their dealings with one another. " The upper classes-those that have grown rich-on the other hand, leave When rich leave: " behind them nearly all their vices, and lead a life distinguished by out- their vices. " ward prosperity. *

* But when we remember that nearly all the " industry and much of the enterprise of the Straits is due to it ; that it " furnishes good hard-working coolies and persevering, adventurous traders, " the Chinese element in the population of these settlements is entitled to " be esteemed among the most valuable."

We have given above the words of eye-witnesses. It is, in the nature of evidence, and the reason we have not condensed or described it is ob- vious.

CHINESE IN AUSTRALIA.

THE CHINESE IN OUR SISTER COLONIES.

The Chinese population in every foreign country is a tide which ebbs and flows-now rolls forward from and again sweeps back to its parent sea in China ; but, so long as there is profit to be made, ever gains on the land. An increase or decrease in this population has hardly any reference to births or deaths. A comparison between the Chinese population in any country, therefore, from the end of one decade to that of another will indicate whether immigration is on the increase or decrease. Mr. Briggs' tables (page 12) shows a falling off in arrivals at San Francisco, from 27,404 to 3,536, as the result of the Restriction Act of 1882. This, of course, was certain to happen. Each of the 3,536 speaking roughly must either have been in the United States before the new policy, or must have imposed a fraud on the collector of the port, in regard to which some evidence was taken by the Joint Committee.

When we look at Australian legislation we find that in 1855 an Act was passed in Victoria limiting the number of Chinese arriving to one for every ten ton the ship could carry, and imposing a rate of ten pounds sterling per head .* Yet between 1854 and 1857, according to the census returns, the number of Chinese had increased from 2,000 to 25,370. The increase is due to the natural impulse of the Chinese immigration at that time operating, but no doubt the number was swelled by the determina- tion to get in before the Act came into operation, as we have seen was the case in California. In 1857, a Committee took evidence on Chinese immi- gration, and reported that the business which some 40,000 Chinamen brought to the colony was no adequate compensation for the amount of gold (120,000 ounces), which they were annually abstracting from the wealth of the country. If the figure 40,000 was correct, between the date of the census, March, 1857, and November, a great increase had taken place. Some restriction the Committee said was necessary, t and they re- ported in favor of a bill having license clauses really aimed against the Chinaman on the gold fields. In New South Wales, in 1861, a Rrestriction Act was passed, and in 1864 an act consolidating the laws affecting Chinese immigration was passed in Victoria, which like the former act imposed £10 ($50) per head import duty on Chinese, and the number limited to one for every ten ton a vessel could carry, and though this Act was repealed in 1865 it was by an Act which gave most extensive powers to the Governor in Council. There soon followed a striking decrease in the number of Chinese arriving in that colony. In 1871, there were 17,935 Chinamen in Victoria ; in 1881, only 12,128. Of these, two-thirds lived in counties, and one-third in cities ; 621 in Melbourne ; 518 in Sandhurst; 382 in Ballarat. The largest number in any one shire was

*Acts of Council .- Adamson, Vol. I., p. 714.

Victoria Votes and Proceedings, 1856-57, Legislative Council. See also Statis- tical Notes on Progress of Victoria, p.p. 36, 51.

STATISTICS RESPECTING CHINESE IN VICTORIA.

746, in Grenville. So diffused, the Chinaman can hardly offend the most See census of vigorous mongolphobist. In all the Australian Colonies, there were in Assembly 3, 2nd Victoria, 1881. 1881, only 43,400. In 1859, nearly that number was in Victoria alone. Session, 1881.

The Chinese immigration, as elsewhere, is in the Australian Colonies male. In all these Colonies there are but 362 Chinese females, or only a fractional part of a woman to every 100 men, the exact ratio being 1.84 to the 100.

The standard of comfort, as elsewhere, is low. In Victoria, 6,832 live Standard of com- in houses ; 5,122 in huts ; 154 in tents ; 12 camping out, and 8 in boats. fort low.

The religious condition is not bright, yet Christianity has made some Religion, progress. Of the Chinese in Victoria, Australia, 92 per cent. are pagans. Of the remainder : 375 Church of England ; 81 Presbyterians ; 229 Me- thodists ; 5 baptists; 6 Bible Christians ; 132 Roman Catholics. One hundred and fifty-six refused to state their religion, and on enquiry it turned out they were afraid of persecution. Those who have read the interesting account of Huc's travels in China will remember how he en- countered converts who revealed themselves secretly, and who feared to make an open profession of their faith.

The facts respecting Chinese education in Victoria are not discouraging. Educational Students under twenty, including half-castes, number 494-of whom 286 are boys and 208 girls. Of the boys, eighty-four, or 29 per cent., and of the girls seventy-three, or 35 per cent. were, in 1881, receiving an English education. Of the 157 being educated, eighty-five were attending State and ten private schools. A few could read and write English. There may, perhaps, in some of these schools rise up a Chinese Cadmus to give his people an alphabet.

It is curious to note that of the 12,000 Chinamen in Victoria only 412 Occupations. describe themselves as laborers ; 6,603 put themselves down as miners ; 2,233 as farmers, market gardeners, station servants, and the rest distri- bute themselves amongst a variety of callings.

One of the witnesses examined at San Francisco said, the Chinese were Health. healthy, owing to their temperance. Another said he did not think they were a long-lived race. In Victoria it was found, in 1881, that one in every eighty-one was disabled by sickness ; one in every 6,000 deaf and dumb; one in every 1,000 blind, and one in 140 lunatic. These figures show that the Chinese suffered less than the general population from each 'description of infirmity except insanity.

The Chinese would seem to have, in some instances, intermarried with the Miscegenation. whites in Victoria, because we find by the census of 1881 that there were 169 half-castes, mostly the offspring of Chinese fathers and of mothers of European birth or extraction. If we suppose these children to be found in families and give three to a family, then you have fifty-six instances of miscegenation in Victoria. We saw at Victoria, British Columbia, a young half-caste with the Mongol hair and a blue Saxon eye.

Of the 12,128 Chinese in Victoria, in 1881, 7,840 or 65 per cent. were on the gold fields. This is a much smaller percentage than at former

conditions not discouraging.

THE CHINESE IN QUEENSLAND.

periods. In 1871, 90 per cent., and in 1861 97 per cent. of the Chinese population were on the gold fields. Taking the Chinese population in 1861 at 42,000, this percentage would give us 33,180 on the gold fields. and 8,820 in other employments. Since 1861 the "import duty " and licenses have been operating and besides Queensland has come to the front. as a desirable place in which to look for gold, and is nearer to China.

In Queensland, though a very young colony, there are 11,206 Chinese and Cooktown district is almost entirely Mongolian. In New Zealand, there are 4,995 Chinese.

Mr. Reeves in a speech in the New Zealand Parliament in 1878, in which he moved that the House was of opinion that immediate legislation should take place on the subject of Chinese immigration, quoted a portion of a letter from a friend in Cooktown which runs as follows :

"The Chinese question is becoming one of very serious import here. It. is no use denying the fact that the Chinese are gradually and surely elbowing the white population out of Northern Queensland. The Euro- pean population here have urged and still are urging the Government to take steps to prevent the influx of Chinese into the colony. You may depend on it that if something is not speedily done to check the immigration. of Chinese it will lead to riot and bloodshed, and probably the loss of many valuable lives ;" and he goes on to cry God help New Zealand, which was menaced with a touch of the " Yellow Agony:"

On the 11th December, 1877, a paper was read before the Royal Colonial Institute, by Arthur Macalister, Esq., C. M. G., Agent-General for Queensland, in which he gives a graphic account of the condi- tion of things among the miners in Queensland, at that time .* Hardy English colonists and no Chinese meant life and property secure. The en- tire European population in the Cook and Palmer districts do not number more than 5,000 all told, for the most part composed of gold diggers. To the Palmer River diggings for nearly eighteen months previously the Chinese flocked until it was computed there was not less than 30,000 of them on the gold fields. The essayist says that had the Chinese come into the colony in the ordinary course of immigration no complaint would have been heard. But they come in an army captained by bosses; not as colonists but to capture the auriferous deposits in the gold fields and decamp. He then goes on to show how unpleasant a camping neighbor is this Chinaman whom he describes as both a thief and a liar and hence -. forth good-bye to security in the camp.

In the course of the discussion which followed, several gentlemen well acquainted with the Chinese spoke, some on one side and some on the other. Those who advocated Chinese immigration did so because of their character, on grounds of international law, and on general principles.

*Queensland imitated that year the example set by New South Wales in 1861. See clauses 3 and 4, " The Chinese Immigrants Regulation Act of 1877."-Acts of Parliament, Queensland, 41 Vic., No. 8.

CXXV

Mr. Tidman, who saw much of them, says they are preeminent among Asiatics for "frugality, enterprise, and indomitable energy." He tells us he was astonished to find the disturbances in the Straits spoken of as insur- rections, whereas they were only " faction fights- clan disputes, such as were common enough in Scotland years ago, and we know to this hour in Ireland." In another place he says: "The secret of the government of Government the Chinese is government through their head men." This is a very im- headmen. portant statement as bearing on the character of Chinamen as guests in large numbers. It comes from a man who has known them well, and who even advocates settling Queensland with Chinamen.

through their

Sir Francis Murphy, of the colony of Victoria, gave a brief history of Dangers appre- the Chinese question in that colony. He says after a time it was found influx of Chinese hended from that " the dangers which we apprehended from the influx of Chinese at exaggerated. first were greatly exaggerated." He points to an experience which has been duplicated elsewhere, namely: that the Chinese proved very man- ageable, and really came as gleaners in the wake of other miners. "They worked upon ground that the diggers had abandoned as useless. They learned from them, moreover, how to till the ground with skill and Market minuteness, which we had not the patience to do in Australia, and suc- gardeners. cessfully to get even from barren soil many products necessary for animal life, such as vegetables-an occupation that few of the European popula- tion engaged in themselves at that time. And to this day a large propor- portion of the people derive their vegetables and garden produce from Chinese labor." He adds, however : "But there is no doubt many evils have resulted from the introduction of a low class of Chinese, the dregs of the seaside Chinese towns, who are brought to work as slaves."

This gentleman bears testimony to the high character of the Chinese merchants whom he had met in Victoria.

Then, on the other hand comes Mr. Kelsey, of Queensland. At the The Chinese miner- time when the North Queensland gold fields were opened there weremany in Queensland. thousands of Anglo-Saxons scattered over hundreds of square miles. But prior to "the Chinese invasion," a score of policemen spread over this wide district was sufficient. The miner after washing up his gold put the results in a tin panikin and left it by the water side. He then went back two or three miles, as the case might be, to get some more wash dirt. The Anglo-Saxon drinks, maybe, and fights and swears, but he will not steal ; but the moment that the first hordes of Chinese arrived the Euro- pean lost small things and valuables, and felt that he could not leave his camp, where were all his worldly possessions. No longer could he go away leaving his goods, and possibly wife and child, unprotected. "Chinamen are like a flock of sheep. You might see a suspicious Celestial lounging about your camp, but if anything is stolen you cannot tell him from any other Chinaman, all of the lower and criminal classes being as much alike in face as one black sheep is to another." The result is the digger hardly dares to go to look for gold. In Melbourne and San Francisco, he says, almost pathetically, there are "Chinese quarters," and all that people in

QUEENSLAND AND VICTORIA.

either place need see of the Chinamen is when he comes to take away the washing. "But the wearied digger finds when he comes to his humble home that Chinamen are squatting all round his camp, prepared to rob him of goods and comfort." Until Queensland is rich and old enough to provide an army of police, he says, " wholesale immigration from China is a dangerous and cruel thing. It would stop the progress of a prosper- ing part of a splendid colony, if swamped by Chinese criminals, landing in great numbers at this present time."

Mr. Westgarth, whose colony (Victoria) was the first, to have "the Mongolian invasion," and who was a member of a Commission in 1854, to enquire into the immigration of the Chinese to the gold fields tells us how while the Commissioners were sitting four cargoes of Chinese arrived.

" The Commission were very much astonished a tovertaking on their way to the gold-fields, as I recollect, a whole cargo travelling up the great highway to the Castlemain diggings ; and afterwards, when they came to Ballarat and the other gold-fields, were no less so to look down upon the dense masses of the Chinese, busy after their old fashion at gold washing."

Ten thousand were then in the colony, and it was said "all China was coming.", Later on, however, he repeated what Sir Francis Murphy had said, that their fears proved to some extent groundless. The influx of Chinese was much less than was expected. All this is very important. These men are old colonists speaking of a time of panic-if the word is not too strong-not dissimilar to that which prevails in certain places at this moment. Much of the apprehension arose from the " very miscellaneous and bad lot of Chinese " which first came. "We found that in Victoria -and I am sure they found it in Queensland even more-when on the Palmer diggings there were, within a brief time, as many as 30,000 Chi- namen." Mr. Westgarth proceeds to say, what at this hour should be pondered by every man who would discuss this question with an approach to a statesmanlike spirit :

"The great objection to a large influx of Chinamen, or of any other extremely foreign element, is that it is an indigestible mass in the midst of a society with which it can never amalgamate in a political and gene- ral sense ; and that was the feeling which, if I recollect rightly, weighed upon tho Gold Commission of which I was a member. This high social consideration is really what we ought to look at, and not be bandying accusations against the Chinese that they are this, that, or the other that is bad."

The Chinese had good points. Nobody ever saw a Chinaman drunk. En revanche he was often intoxicated with opium.

Mr. Labillière then spoke. In the course of his speech he said he remembered the passing of the Chinese Acts in Victoria. The effect was most beneficial. "It checked the stream of Chinese inundation " and Chinamen going back to China reported to their countrymen : "You cannot go there in too great numbers because there is this legislation to prevent you." Within a short time the Chinese flood had taken the

NO CHINESE DEPENDENCY.

direction of Queensland ; "and the Government of that Colony has most wisely followed that remedial course of policy which was so successful in Victoria." A wholesome lesson would have been taught the Chinese that they must not convert Australia into "a dependency of the Chinese Empire." Mr. Tidman had told them that it would be a most advisable thing to people Northern Australia with Chinese as Singapore had been peopled.

" I admit " he goes on " that by introducing within the next ten years Must look to the as many millions of Chinamen into Queensland or other parts of Australia, future you might develope the resources ef Australia to an extent to which they would not otherwise attain in fifty years; but is it desirable that we should accelerate, the progress of Australia at the expense of the future nationality of Australia. Is it desirable in order that a few men may make fortunes the whole type and character of the population of that great continent should be fixed and moulded forever ? I think, unless we are to be so tremendously cosmopolitan as to deny the superiority of our own race altogether, and to say that the Chinaman is as good as the Englishman, or perhaps a good deal better, then, I think it is essential that we should at once face this question and say that a Chinese inundation shall not be tolerated in Australia."

One thing is worth noticing about this Australian evidence-for it is as good evidence as if it was taken by examination-namely, the exact similarity of position and tone to those taken by men in San Fran- Chinesecharacter- cisco and British Columbia to-day. The Chinaman seems to be the everywhere. istics the same same everywhere, and the advocates of his advent or his restriction or exclusion use the very same words whether they live in Melbourne, or Lon- don, or San Francisco. In San Francisco, the moment a man proved himself strongly pro-Chinese you might be certain that in a few minutes he would abuse the Irish ; and so in the course of this colonial debate we find a Mr. Strangways who says that any cry against the Chinese is sure to have an Irish origin. He has no sympathy with those who would keep out Chinese labor in the interest of white labor, but, like other pro-Chinese, he would be opposed to allowing the country to get swamped with Chinese.

In Queensland an agitation arose for an Act more stringent than that of Feeling in Queens- 1877, and in 1884 the Premier of Queensland introduced the Chinese Immi- land rising. grants Regulation Bill. In Committee on the bill a debate arose, most inter- esting is it as showing the feeling in Queensland, and indeed in all the Austra- lian colonies. The Premier said that clause 3 in the principal Act provided for the number of Chinese that a ship might carry ; clause 6 provided that a certificate should be given as a receipt for the £10 paid ; and clause 7 provided for the return of the money on the departure of the Chinese from the colony. On clause 3-"Ships not to carry more than one Chinese See Parliament- passenger for every fifty tons register"-the Premier referred to the fact ary Debates, Queensland, Feb. 21st, 1884. that on the second reading of the Bill there was a good deal of discussion on this clause, and some honorable members were of opinion that it was not sufficiently severe. He contended that the provisions of that section

MORE RESTRICTION IN QUEENSLAND.

were preferable to those adopted in New South Wales and Victoria. In those colonies the number of Chinese coming in ships was limited to one for every hundred tons, and the poll-tax was £10.

"Those were the most severe measures passed in the Australian colonies up to the present time against the influx of Chinese. There was this dif- ference with respect to Queensland, which influenced the Government to a great extent in making the modification they had done: the restrictions. of coming by ship appeared to be a matter of passage money ; and he took it that practically it would be ten times as difficult for the Chinese to come under this Bill as it was before. The distinction between Queens- land and New South Wales and Victoria was that there was a consider- able trade between the eastern ports and Australia, which he was sure they did not wish to discourage, except as regarded the Chinese. Those. ships sailed from Hong Kong, called at two or three of the northern ports, and then came on to Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. Now, the prohi- bition was against their having Chinese on board, whether as passengers. or not ; and as the present section provided that no ship should have more than one Chinaman for every fifty tons register, that meant that Queens- land, where the first ports of call were, would prohibit more than that number coming to all Australia, or to Sydney and Melbourne. There was considerable traffic between Hong Kong and Sydney and Melbourne, and the passenger traffic would be continued ; they could not prevent it; but if a ship was 1,500 tons register, she could only carry thirty Chinese pas- sengers for any part of Australia. Practically, therefore, the number of Chinese who would come here would not exceed ten or twelve by every ship. Our position was different to that of Sydney and Melbourne, as. they did not want to prevent a ship coming into Queensland ports simply because she had Chinese passengers for Sydney and Melbourne on board. He thought the proposed restriction would be sufficient to keep the Chinese out, and the departures would, he felt sure, more than balance the arrivals."

The views thus set forth met with strenuous opposition. One member did not want to injure the trade with and from China, but he had no desire to preserve the trade if it interfered with preventing Chinese coming. "Chinese were able to compete with our own people, and that was where the danger was." Several members spoke even more strongly.

The thing to note is the tendency of legislation in every quarter where white men can thrive to become more restrictive in respect of Chinese immigration.

The Queensland Acts for 1884 are not in the Library, and since the parliamentary debates of that colony have been brought before us there has been no time to learn the fate of the measure referred to. It is cer- tain however to have passed into law.

Oliphant, who is an admirer of the Chinese, and who suggests that in Singapore they should be given some share in the government, says : "We must be careful of judging of the results of Chinese immigration by the experiences of California, Australia or any other colony where peculiar conditions resulting from gold discoveries exist, and where the climate admits of competition by whites. It is as undesirable that such a com-

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS AND JAMAICA.

petition should be established in those countries adapted for European out-of-door labor as that others should be deprived of the benefits of any such labor at all, because the climate is fatal to the white man." Mr. See p. 33, M. E. Brooks points out that only in temperate climates can the European races thrive, and that the countries in this belt should be kept for them.

HAWAIIAN ISLANDS, JAMAICA, ETC.

In the Hawaiian Islands, according to the census of 1878, out of a Chinese Immi- population of 57,985 there were 5,916 Chinese, and, though intermarriages aged by the gration discour- with the natives in some cases took place, the Government thought fit, in Government. Hawaiian 1883, to discourage Chinese immigration and to encourage Portugese and See M. E. pp .312- Japanese. [See Appendix S.] The grounds for this course are those 3 and 411, 414. stereotyped objections to the Chinese which one hears everywhere. The policy is most unpopular with the planters, but the' press and public opinion outside of the planter class support the Government.

Accounts from Jamaica, Peru, and from other places is, as we might M. E. pp. 258, 360. expect, to the effect that the Chinaman carries with him everywhere the qualities which distinguish him in California, the same virtues and vices. Testimony of an Mr. Edward Litchfield, a prominent business man in New York, who to the Chinese in ex-sugar planter Jamaica. knows Jamaica well and has observed the Chinese on Taylor's and Dawkin's on Ellis's and Molines' caymanas, writes that they favor- ably impressed him. In cultivating sugar the Chinese were always able to show more work than the negro. " They always seemed contented and happy, no class of laborers giving less trouble to their employers. Their style of living, and the manner in which during sickness they attended to each other's wants would teach a good lesson to many of the white people who seem to consider it a crime to encourage those industrious, inoffensive, hardworking, simple-minded Chinese."

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

RESUMÉ.

1. That Chinese labor is a most efficient aid in the development of a. country, and a great means to wealth. As a railway navvy the Chinaman has no superior, and his presence in California has given the State a start many years ahead and added incalculably to its material prosperity ; while in British Columbia Chinese labor has been attended by great advantages to the Province and the same excellent effects would, most likely, for many years from now follow its utilization.

2. That, however, the Chinese being a non-assimilable race, clearly marked off from white people by color and national and race character- istics, their presence in a country is not unattended with disadvantages, foremost among these being the irritation, discontent and resentment they inspire in white laborers. Without discussing the reasonableness or otherwise of this antipathy, there it is ; and, as an important element in. the problem of the development and government of the country, it is a. fact for the State to consider in all its practical bearings.

3. That being able to subsist on much less than white men, they lower wages ; and the sentiment of race superiority on the part of the whites. leads these to feel humiliation at working by the side of Chinamen, the tendency being, as some contend, to bring labor into contempt.

4. That the Chinese do largely engross domestic service, in which they prove themselves faithful and efficient ; that the evidence was strong, if not conclusive, that white girls cannot be induced to go into the country, removed from their church and accustomed companionship, to work as domestics, and that a sufficient supply can not be had even for cities and towns ; that the fact that the Chinese thus compete with female servants. is, nevertheless, one well worthy the attention of Government.

5. That the tendency is for certain industries to pass completely into the hands of the Chinese.

6. That the statements as to their bad moral effect on the community are grossly exaggerated. In fact their morality is not lower than that of the same classes of other nationalities.

7. That their custom of living in quarters of their own-"Chinatowns" -is attended with evils, such as the depreciation of property, and owing to their habits of lodging in crowded quarters and accumulating filth is. offensive if not likely to breed disease. But these evils might be dealt with by police supervision.

8. That they do not burden public charities nor unduly swell the calen- dar of crime.

9. On the point whether the Chinese have a quasi-government amongst themselves, the evidence is such as to leave the matter in doubt. It is probable, however, that what really exist are guilds and courts of arbitra- tion. The Six Companies, about which so much is said, not only arose naturally in the early days, but such guilds are Chinese institutions found everywhere, and there can be no doubt that in China and Singapore such associations enable compradors to behave with great independence, not to say tyranny and peculation. Much of what has been said and written on this subject shows complete ignorance of Chinese character and habits. Chinamen invariably combine.

10. It would be very hard to say to which side educated public opinion in California leans on this subject of Chinese immigration. In British Columbia those who are not dependent in one way or another on the sup- port of the laboring classes are, as a rule, unfavorable to anti-Chinese legislation. Everywhere the railway men and the mine owners, the man- ufacturers and the housekeepers, the merchants an'l shopkeepers are against absolute exclusion, but the very best friends of the Chinamen think their immigration should be regulated. In California an overwhelming vote was polled against them.

11. Assuming, as is done above, that the Chinese cannot be assimilated, it is well to pause before a choice of evils. If, for instance, they supply a want that cannot otherwise be supplied, labor where else great works would have to stop, help where else the weak and the old would in the discharge of their household duties sink beneath the burden of infir- mity or age, then their presence so far from being an evil is a good. When other labor can be had, and other help is at hand, then would have been the time to think of dispensing wholly with the Chinese, and Congress undoubtedly went beyond the demands of some of the leaders in the anti-Chinese movement.

12. No one doubts that they have done a good day's work for the people of California. But if it is unfair on the one hand to complain after they have given value that they take the money out of the country, it would be equally illogical on the part of the Chinese, who professedly have never come to stay, to complain if the door is shut against new-comers. Those who have vested interests there are suffered to remain, and the wage- earners who never intended to stop could claim no reversion for others.

13. That they show no desire to understand or meddle with politics,

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

and take no or little interest in any country where they go to labor, and always intend to return to China; nor, save for the density of population in China, would there be reason to apprehend large permanent settlements of Chinese. But as that density must increase, necessity would in time lead to such settlements. This remark, however, should be made : although the climate of Northern China is cold, the immigrants who seek the western shores of this continent come and are sure to continue to come from provinces whose climate is either semi-tropical or borders on that ; nor need there be any fear of a Chinese inundation in Canada.

14. That no one, save a few persons of very ill-considered opinions, desires to exclude Chinese merchants, or any class of Chinese save two. All would exclude prostitutes and criminals. While numbers would wel- come laborers on the ground of their usefulness, numbers would exclude them because they compete, or are supposed to compete, to the disadvan- tage of white laborers. It is universally admitted that the merchants are honorable and capable men, of high credit and of great commercial advantage to the community; and these would not only be welcomed but would be desirable.

15. That now (if here a speculative thought may enter) British Columbia has a great opportunity, by welcoming Chinamen, and thus securing not only cheaper labor than California, but conciliating the good will and fixing the attention of a people, from the vast resources and inchoate wealth of whose country the veil is only just being drawn aside, whose commerce is of great value, and on the comple- tion of the Canadian Pacific Railway may be of incalculable value. Brit- ish Columbia has many features in common with California. It is a country which needs local railways ; it is a mining country ; it is a fruit- growing country. It possesses, besides, enormous resources in timber lands and fisheries. If, therefore, British Columbia were to decide that the undoubted evils of Chinese immigration were largely counterbalanced by other considerations, what would happen is this : she would by vigor- ous legislation secure that her mines would be worked on a large scale, the riches of the country being thus enormously increased and her treasury swelled ; she would engross nearly all the coal and timber trade and much of the fruit trade of the Pacific Coast, while her fish would largely supply the markets of the eastern and central parts of the conti- nent, and even with Europe no insignificant commerce would be within her grasp ; her wealth positively and above all relatively to California would develop at a ratio not short of mathematical; she would literally

1

RESUMÉ.

shoot ahead as one of the great seats of commerce and industrial activity ; and, her position achieved, she could then apply herself to the political and social problem, and by the aid of the Dominion Parliament deal with that.

16. That the Chinese are most successful as market-gardeners. Per- haps in this character they are hardly equalled in the skill with which they bring the maximum of produce out of the ground, and though not clever in the management of horses, in the field they play a useful, if a subordinate part.

17. That if Chinamen dispensed with those conditions of Asiatic civili- zation which they have hitherto insisted on taking with them everywhere ; if their children were found more often than at present dressed in western garb and their books under their arm going to an English school, hostility to them would gradually disappear. In fact, a few bright Chinese school boys would do more for assimilation than all the measures of statesmen. There is little difference in appearance between a Chinaman who wears western clothes and makes a western toilet and the Portuguese or the Italian, who would be welcomed on whatever shores immigration was needed. The Japanese wins sympathy everywhere, and in some cases is actively encouraged because he adapts himself to the customs of the coun- try in which he settles.

18. That the Chinaman in Victoria, B.C., under British rule, and in Portland under that of the United States, where the hostility to him is not so great as in the capital of California, is of a superior type to the Chinaman of San Francisco, and the inference is that he improves accord- ing as he is treated well.

19. That restrictive legislation in the United States has of necessity stimulated white immigration, but there is as yet no evidence that the supply would meet the needs of the country if the Chinese were to disap- pear.

20. That assuming Chinese immigrants of the laboring class will per- sist in retaining their present characteristics of Asiatic life, where these are strikingly peculiar and distinct from western, and that the influx will continue to increase, this immigration should be dealt with by Parliament ; but no legislation should be such as would give a shock to great interests and enterprises established before any probability that Parliament would inter- fere with that immigration arose. Questions of vested rights might come up, and these ought to be carefully considered before action is taken.

21. That, therefore, if restrictive legislation were considered opportune

ENQUIRY AT SAN FRANCISCO.

it should aim at gradually-achieved results, and the history of the ques- tion, as well as the evidence, shows that by legislation regulating, not ex- cluding Chinese laborers, every purpose can be effected which those who apprehend evils from Chinese immigration could, and actually do desire.

22. That whenever legislation on this subject takes place its provisions should be of such a character as to avoid the difficulties, litigation and expense which have followed (as will be seen on pages cvi-cix, Enquiry at San Francisco,) the administration in the United States of the Restric- tion Acts of 1882 and 1884.

All of which is respectfully submitted.

Ottawa, February 21st, 1885.

J. A. CHAPLEAU.

RESPECTING

CHINESE IMMIGRATION

IN

BRITISH COLUMBIA.

The Commissioners appointed to enquire into and report upon the "subject of Chinese immigration, its trade relations, as well as the social and moral objections taken to the influx of the Chinese people into Canada," having during the progress of the work found that it would conduce to a more exhaustive examination and study of the subject to divide their report, I have the honor to transmit my obser- vations upon that branch which fell more particularly to myself.

I have the honour to be, Your obedient servant,

JOHN HAMILTON GRAY, Commissioner.

OTTAWA, February 21st, 1885.

31-" equally." 45-(erase) " cash."

45-" their."

48-(erase) " recommended by Chinese."

60-add " opposite Colonel Bees' evidence, page 20, see also Dr. Stout's evidence, 311," -- in in marginal note. 66-add opposite 23rd line, " see also Dr. Stout's evidence, 310.

70-" labor," not laborer. 83-Text, 24th line, " is," not his.

84-"62 and 63," not 33.

96-" Hertzlell."

BRITISH COLUMBIA.

-

CHAPTER I.

MATERIAL AND PECUNIARY ASPECT.

We must now come to the evidence gathered in British Columbia, and British Columbia. with reference to this evidence there are two aspects in which it is to be regarded.

Ist. Material and Pecuniary.

2nd. Moral and Social.

Aspects 1st and 2nd.

It is set forth in the Petition from the Legislature of British Columbia which originated this Commission, that the Chinese " class of the popula- tion of the Province has been a continual source of expense-especially in matters connected with the administration of justice." "In the evasion of Statements in taxation. In leaving their sick and destitute to perish and being in every petition. walk of life an expensive and objectionable class of inhabitants " and " by their presence materially affecting the immigration of a white population."

These are most material and important allegations and if established would fairly demand from the Dominion Parliament, within whose juris- diction this question comes-the most drastic legislation.

It cannot be presumed that the Legislature of British Columbia as representing its people, made these allegations, without having enquired Presumptions. into the facts, and obtained sufficient proof to warrant these assertions, to the satisfaction of ordinarily intelligent men ; nay more, when these facts are stated to a Parliament composed of men representing the various in- Parliament. terests of many divergent Provinces which would be affected by the Legislation asked to be adopted, it was incumbent on the Legislature of British Columbia to lay before that Parliament and its members sufficient evidence to warrant a departure from the ordinary policy of the Dominion, Policy. and to enable its members to defend before their several constituencies a line of action, which however asserted to be beneficial to British Columbia would be inconsistent with that policy and might injuriously affect the welfare of the whole Dominion. It cannot be admitted that so little knowledge of Constitutional Government there prevails as to suppose, that the mere statement of the Representatives in Parliament from that Province, would justify the passing of measures affecting the whole Assumption. Dominion, and apparently in contravention of the Treaties of the Empire, when the numerical proportion of that representation was simply as 6 to Numerical 205. It was not therefore unreasonable to ask for proof. The Legislature proportion. of British Columbia not having laid such proof before the Parliament, the Commission was issued to obtain it.

It must therefore be assumed that sitting by virtue of the Royal Authority in British Columbia, and having invited this evidence from the Legislature and people of the Province, all the proof that could be Extent of proof. obtained was brought before the Commission.

It is that proof so produced which it is now proposed to analyse, as Analysis of B. C. bearing upon the statements made in the petition of the Legislature of proof.

British Columbia.

We find from a return made by the collector of Customs at Victoria under requisition from the Commission, dated 11th of August 1884 : that for ten years commencing with the year ending 30th June, 1874, and terminating 30th June, 1884, there was a marked increase in the value and amount of duty on goods imported from China into the Province, and entered for consumption. Previous to 1874, no returns are given.

That increase is thus shown :-

Year

Value

Duty rec'd

1874

$ 6,064

$ 174.47

1875

1,277

194.60

1876

5,481

1,994.85

1877

20,711

8,392.48

1878

81,345

22,940.23

1879

121,976

30,410.78

1880

44,936

14,186.25

1881

127,852

39,204.48

1882

240,170

78,433.65

1883

326,239

104,738.66

1884

393,728

111,300.15

$1,369,779

$411,970.60

This Return embraces the imports from China entered for consumption generally, and the duties paid by importers generally. A second Return shows of these total amounts what proportions were entered and duties paid on, directly by the Chinese firms or traders themselves. Taking the fiscal years terminating in June. 1883 and 1884 as the latest illustrations :

In the fiscal year from July Ist, 1882, to June 30th, 1883, the amount of duty so paid by the Chinese firms was $87,459, out of a total revenue of $798,604.67, or at the rate of 11 1-5 per cent.

In the year from the 1st July, 1883, to 30th June, 1884, the amount of duty so paid was $99,779.75, out of a total revenue of $790,676, or at 1884.12-54 per cent. the rate of 12-54 per cent.

The monthly return for the first month of the present fiscal year, from the 1st of July, 1884, to the 1st of August, shows amount of duty so paid by the Chinese firms, $19,319.71, out of a total of $77,208, or at the rate of 25 per cent.

Thus we find that, during the last ten years, the Chinese trade in British Columbia has contributed to the general revenue of the Dominion the sum of $411,970.60, or nearly half a million, and of that amount in the last two years the trade has so increased that the duties paid by the Chinese importers alone have amounted to $187,238, or at the rate of nearly 12 per cent. of the total revenue collected from Customs in the Province, and, assuming the return given by the Collector for the month of July, 1884, as an average for the fiscal year terminating on 30th June, 1885, the total amount paid by the Chinese importers alone for the cur- rent fiscal year would be $231,836.52, or at the rate of 25 per cent. assuming the total increase of revenue to be in relative proportion.

Later returns from the Collector for the months of August and Septem- ber, 1884, give for the former $9,267.08, for the latter 9,753.91, or for the first quarter of the current fiscal year, $38,340.62, or at the rate of $153,362.48 for the year.

From the same Collector we have returns of the number of passengers entering the port of Victoria during the last eight years. (It may here be stated that up to this time the great bulk of arrivals has been at that

port.) Of those passengers coming from the ports on Puget Sound and San Francisco we have, during the four fiscal years 1881, 1882, 1883 and 1884, a total of white passengers of 27,256, and of Chinese from the same White 27.256. ports and also direct from China a total of 15,701 .- An examination in Of Chinese immi- detail of these returns will show that of the Chinese so coming into the gration 15.701. Province more than half came in the years 1882 and 1883, when the demand for labor for the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway was at its height.

The total number of Chinese arrivals for the five preceeding years : 1876, 1877, 1878, 1879 and 1880, only amounted to 2,326, making the entire number for the eight years 18,027. It will be observed no memo- randum of returning or out-going passengers, white or Chinese, is given ; and no death-rate of the Chinese in the province.

From the Collector of Inland Revenne we have the following Excise revenue. returns :

Ist. Statement of excise revenue received from European cigar manufacturers for the fiscal year commencing 1st July 1883 and ending 30th June 1884, and for the three months commencing 1st July and ending 30th Sep- tember 1884.

Received from 1st July 1883 \ duty on cigars ... $ 5,682.70 ending 30th June 1884. 5 licences. 300.00

$ 5,982.70

Three months ending 30th \ duty on cigars .. $ 1,252.12

September 1884. licences .. 300.00

$ 1,552.12

Victoria, October 14th, 1884.

2nd. Statement of revenue collected from Chinese manufacturers in British Columbia for the fiscal year ending the 30th June 1884, and for three months ending the 30th September 1884.

Fiscal year ending 30th ( duty on cigars ..... $ 1,581.75 June 1884. licences . 150.00

$ 1,731.75

Three months ending 30th ) duty on cigars $ 529.53 September 1884. licences. 150.00

$ 679.53

Victoria, B.C., October 14th, 1884.

These returns suggest two points hereafter for consideration.

Ist. The question of benefit or burden as bearing upon the general Questions. revenue and trade of the Dominion.

2nd. Whether if Chinese immigration into British Columbia and Can- Whether normal ada be an evil, it is an evil normal, or exceptional only, dependent upon or exceptional. circumstances ; in one case requiring stringent legislation to correct it, in the other correcting itself by the exhaustion of the causes which created it.

In answer to a request from the Commission to the Provincial Govern- Payment of ment of British Columbia for a return of the Provincial taxes paid by the Chinese throughout the province, a return was made only of the taxes paid in the city of Victoria, and the Victoria and Esquimalt districts for the two years from the 1st January, 1882, to 31st December, 1882, from

Provincial Taxa- tion by Chinese.

Jaauary, 1883, to December, 1883, and the half year from January, 1884, to July 1st, 1884, as follows :--

1882 572 at $3 per capita $1,716 00

1883 102 3,306.00

1884 half-year, 1,040 " 3,120 00

Here it will be observed, that the amounts paid in these two districts alone were in an increased ratio, more than doubling itself each year.

It is to be regretted, that the returns for the rest of the Province were not made, as in estimating in a pecuniary point of view, whether a matter be one of profit or loss, it is difficult to decide, where such evidence is not supplied.

By a return from Thomas Russell, Esq., the Treasurer and Accountant of the city of Victoria, we find the taxes paid by the Chinese residents in the City of Victoria, for five years, from Ist of January, 1879, to 31st of December, 1883, classified under four different heads: of trades' licenses, water rents, road tax, and real estate tax, as follows :

In 1879 $5,827 00

1880. 6,191 00

1881 6,562 00

1882

7,712 00

1883.

8,414 00

accompanied with the following observations :-

" The road tax is approximate, having been based upon the income of one year for an average.

" The amount under head of real estate tax is small. This is owing to " the fact that there are only four who own real estate in the city, but "several of the leading firms have erected this year substantial buildings " on leasehold property, upon which in future under the terms of their " leases they will have to pay the real estate tax."

These returns indicate an increasing investment of their productive labor by the Chinese in the business and property. of the country both real and personal; or, secondly, a clearly improved mode of getting over their alleged habit of evading the payment of taxes.

To a request from the Commission to the Provincial Government for a return of the expense to the administration of justice caused by the pres- ence of the Chinese in the Province, the attorney general regretted his inability to supply it, but by an examination of the public accounts for the half year from 1st July to 31st December 1882, we find a statement given in detail, which in the absence of other information may presumably be taken as an average.

It is the report of the Provincial Minister of Finance, dated 28th Feb- ruary, 1883, laid before the Government and Local Assembly, duly audited and classified under different heads, in the ordinary and customary mode of such official documents when prepared for the information of Parliament and the people.

We find the total amount for the administration of justice (other than salaries) to be $8,857.84 including jury fees, witness expenses, meals and the other incidentals attendant on the trial of criminals.

This report gives in detail the different causes by name, in which the expenses are incurred, showing in detail how they are incurred and the total amount in each particular prosecution, from the constables' fees to the jury's dinner, with some general charges to a small amount which may

fairly be equally distributed among the different classes, Chinese, Indians and whites.

The amounts so given in detail as far as an analysis of this report will Expenses of pro- permit, as specially incurred in prosecutions against the Chinese are secutions. $686.65 ; in prosecutions against the Indians $575; and in prosecution against white men $922.85,

As bearing on this same branch of the question we have a return from Police reports as the superintendant of police of the city of Victoria of the number of cases, to relative num- bers. whites, Indians and Chinese, before the police court for five and a half years from January 1st, 1879 to June 30th 1884, as follows :

Year.

Whites.

Indians.

Chinese.

1879

291

255

75

1880

295

233

69

1881

354

194

24

1882.

375

211

53

1883.

394

217

43

1884.

305

153

32

2,014

1,263

296

(Note : In the enumeration of whites are included all others than Chinese and Indians).

Also a return from the Warden of the Penitentiary at New West- Penitentiary minster of the number of convicts sentenced by the Supreme Court from returns. the 1st January, 1880, to the 30th June, 1884, 33 years, classified accord- ing to race, from which it appears that out of 125 convicts during that period 40 were Chinese.

These reports do not, therefore, indicate that the Chinese as a class Result. are any greater burden upon the administration of justice than the other classes of the community, or that the expenses relative thereto caused by their presence in the Province are out of proportion to the taxes they pay as compared which such other classes.

As bearing on this same point, the material or pecuniary aspect of the question, we must now examine a very carefully prepared document submitted on behalf of the Chinese merchants carrying on business in Report of Chinese- British Columbia, in answer to the enquiries made to them by the Com- merchants. missioners, a mode of obtaining information recommended by Mr. De Cosmos, member of Parliament from British Columbia, as Chairman of a Committee of the House of Commons appointed in 1879 to inquire into this subject, the Report of which Committee with the evidence taken before it will be hereinafter more particularly referred to.

This document was prepared and is signed by " Huang Sic Chen," a Chinese gentleman sent on from San Francisco by the Chinese Consulate to communicate with his countrymen and lay their case before the Com- missioners.

It will be found in full in the Appendix.

Of it, it is proposed to examine at present only those parts bearing on this material aspect, leaving for further consideration its other parts bear- ing on the social and moral aspect.

It displays an order and methodical arrangement not nnworthy of our higher civilization, and supplies much of the information hoped for and expected from the local authorities in British Columbia.

Apart from its credibility which the examination induces, it may be Reputation in observed that according to the information obtained by the Commis- financial dealings: sioners from the banking institutions and leading business firms in San Francisco and Victoria, the higher classes of the Chinese are remarkable

at banking insti- tutions in San Francisco and Victoria.

for probity and accuracy in all business transactions, and the dealings of their mercantile firms are carried on with strict honor and integrity. In San Francisco, where all payments by and at the banks are made in gold, they are found to be most reliable.

Among the laboring or working classes, while they will haggle on the terms of a contract, yet when a contract is closed, it is always carried out strictly according to the terms agreed upon, and payment on per- formance exacted to the uttermost farthing. At the same time all pay- ments demanded from the Chinese to which they have not previously given their assent, whether in the shape of taxation provincial, municipal or otherwise, or contributions for any purpose, will be resisted by every means, artifice and device, whether truthful or untruthful, which their ingenuity can suggest, or which in their belief or expectation will enable them to avoid the payment of such demand. The ruling idea of their transactions, seems to be faith in an agreement only, or in a voluntary contribution.

This report gives the total numbers of Chinese in the Province at the time of its transmission, (September 1884) including men, women and children 10,550. The Collector of customs assumed the number to be about 13,000, while the general opinion as expressed places it at 15,000. It will be remembered that by the Returns of the Collector of Customs, the incoming numbers during the eight years were about 18,000, fluctuat- ing from small numbers during the first five years, to large numbers during the last three years, but from no authority, either Dominion, Provincial or municipal in British Columbia, has any return been attain- able of the outgoing numbers or the death rate during these eight years. The outgoing numbers during the first five years previous to the active commencement of the railway works, and during the last three with the death rate, may perhaps approximately account for the difference be- tween the Chinese return, the estimate of the collector, and the general public estimate of the numbers at present in the Province.

The Report so presented on behalf of the Chinese merchants gives the numbers an I occupations in detail, at all the cities, towns, and centres of business in the Province, commencing with Victoria and going on through New-Westminster, Nanaimo, the coal and mining districts, the farming and canning districts, and wherever so far as known the Chinese are to be found.

It evinces a system of registration among themselves and a facility for obtaining information much to be commended.

An analysis of these figures shows the total adult male population, to be about 9,870, and of this number about 7,200 to be engaged, as railroad, milling, mining, farming, and canning laborers throughout the Province, in no way except in one instance where in the City of Victoria 130 are employed as boot-makers, interfering with skilled labor, the employment of mechanics, or special industrial pursuits.

How far these several industries, milling, mining, canning, and railroad construction could have been carried on without this source of labor supply, will hereafter be considered. The remaining 2,670, are classified as finding employment as cooks, servants, washing men, merchants, store employees &c., and also in other personal avocations, among their own country-men, barbers, doctors, butchers, &c.

A still more important element in this Report is the financial state- ment of their position.

From this it appears that the total amount of business done by the Chinese merchants in British Columbia annually is about $1,320,000, and

the duties paid to the Dominion authorities for Customs and internal revenue amount to $152,300, namely, $150,000 duties, and $2,300, Inland Revenue, revenue. The amount of $150,000, exceeds that given by the Collector of Customs for the past fiscal year, but would be within the amount for the current fiscal year, taking the first months payment as an average : or closely coinciding with it, taking the quarter. That the trade done by them with China, Japan and the United States amounts to $500,000, while that with the white merchants in British Columbia alone amounts to $400,000. That the approximate amount paid for freightage and Road tolls. drayage comes to $26,000. And for road tolls in the interior of British Columbia to $13,000. That the value of real estate owned by the Chinese throughout British Columbia is estimated by them at $100,000. That at the city of Victoria alone the payment of postage and telegraph- ing is $3,000, exclusive of such payments elsewhere in the Province. That the sums paid in salaries and expenditures of living by the Chinese merchants amount to $141,000 yearly.

With reference to the City of Victoria ' alone, it is stated that the Rents in the City rents paid by the Chinese to the white owners of property amount an- of Victoria. nually to $27,000 : for rents on 730 acres of cultivated ground and charcoal places in the vicinity to $6,180, (or a total of $33,180) for gas, $1,770 ; for premiums of insurance on buildings and merchandise, $2,560 ; for interest to white people on borrowed cash $8,400, or a total of $45,910, for rents, interest, gas, and insurance.

To the City of Victoria in its municipal or corporate capacity.

For trade licenses

$7,560

Municipal taxes.

Assessment on Real Estate 500

To city revenue and taxes.

1,100

For water rates. 4,440

Or a total of $13,600

The value of brick and frame buildings owned by the Chinese in Value of brick Victoria is estimated at $81,000, of which $70,000, has been expended in ings. the last fourteen months.

In this return of the amount paid for city taxes a marked discrepancy will be observed between it and that given at page (7) by Mr. Russell the treasurer for the city of Victoria.

The attention of both parties was immediately called by the commis- Difference sioners by letter of 26th September to this difference, and an explanation requested. A reply from the secretary of the Chinese merchants, Huan Sic Chen, under date of 14th of October was received on the 24th and is as follows :-

" IMPERIAL CHINESE CONSULATE GENERAL."

" SAN FRANCISCO, October 14th, 1884.

" To N. FLOOD DAVIN, Esq., " Chinese Commission, Ottawa.

" SIR,-I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of Explanation by " September 26th, in which you desire me to explain certain discrepan -. Chinese Secre- tary. " cies as between my statement and that of Mr. Russell, collector of " taxes at Victoria, B. C.

" In reply, I beg to state that in obtaining the facts act forth in my, " report to you I visited each firm and compiled the items from the " books of the Chinese firms. But, I presume, the difference of the " amounts of taxes as given by the collector is this ; that during this.

Expenditures in the Province.

Rents in vicinity.

and frame build-

between returns.

" year, since April and May (1884), there have been ten new firms. " established in Victoria, and the amounts of taxes paid for their new " licenses have been entered in their books as accounts for the year 1884. " That my report embraced payments made up to August, 1884, while " that of the collector was for the year 1883.

" I beg also to call the attention of the Commission that at the time when I compiled the items, I found that there were issued to the Chinese firms for the year 1884, eleven opium licenses at $500 each, and twelve spirit licenses at $50 each, which amounts would give a difference of $6,100.

" All the items set forth in my report were shown from the books, vouchers, and receipts of the firms. When you will see the returns of the- collector for the year 1884, there can be no question that my statements are verified.

" I trust, however, that the discrepancies between my report and that. of the collector are owing to the different dates- 1883 and 1884."

I am, Sir,

Your obedient servant,

HUANG SIC CHEN, Secretary.

No reply has been received from Mr. Russell.

To this same return are added two other important statements in rela- tion to trade.

First, of the nature of the goods imported by the Chinese merchants from China, Japan, and the United States.

Second, of the nature of the goods purchased by Chinese merchants in British Columbia and sold to the Chinese in the province.

Ist. Rice, tea, oil, liquors, tobacco, dry goods, chinaware, drugs, silk goods, paper ware, books and stationery, matting, clothes, shoes-opium, Joss-paper and sticks:

2nd. Cloth goods, woolen, linen, cloth caps, boots, stockings, furs, kerosine oil, candles, matches, papers, soaps, tobacco, cigars, sugar, flour, rice, sweet meats, salt, pigs, lard, beef, butter, fish, fowls, wines, ducks, nails, tools, plates, horses, carriages, waggons, watches, rope, tennis, lamps, fuels, coal, hard and iron ware, glass and crockery, wooden ware, &c.

Thus with one single exception of the Joss-paper and Joss sticks, we- find the goods imported by them and bought by them from the British Columbia merchants are the ordinary goods used and consumed by the people of all classes and countries resident in the province without dis- tinction increasing the demand and supply in proportion to their numbers, swelling the ordinary volume of trade without reference to race, or place of manufacture, and contributing so far as an increase of trade goes to the general advancement and business of the country and of the city of Victoria in particular.

As bearing on this point, it is well to note the co-relevant testimony given in San Francisco, by the Chinese consul, Huang Tsun Hsien, page 40.

"Q. What proportion of the food and clothing of the Chinese in this city comes from China ? A. Ninety per cent. of the material (clothing) worn by the Chinese is of American manufacture. No food, except a few of choice eatables are imported. Rice was largely imported last year over 41,000,000 pounds which paid a duty of 23 cents per pound. It is charged that the Chinese work cheap, because they live upon rice. Let me call your attention to the fact that rice costs by the quantity $6 per 100 pounds, while flour from wheat is only $2.50 per 100 pounds. "

There is also another statement prepared, it must be assumed to meet Withdrawal of the charge, that the Chinese carry the earnings of their la'sor in large Province. amounts to their own country. It gives the per contra of the account, showing the individual Chinese laborer's annual expenses as against his profits. This is with reference to the laborer alone. Placing his earnings at $25 per month, or $300 a year, it deducts his expenses at $257, and leaves an annual gain to him of $45.

The British Columbia statement in detail will be found in the Appendix. See Broooks testimony at San Francisco, page 29, where this annual gain as remitted to China is estimated at $30.

There are one or two principles involved in the consideration of this Principles. part of the question. First, if a man earns his money honestly he has a right to carry it where he pleases. Secondly, it must be presumed that his labor has benefited the country to the extent of his service, or he would not have been paid. He leaves his labor and he takes his earnings. Thirdly, in this respect the Chinese do not differ from the rest of the trading portion of mankind. Half the merchants in Victoria look forward to taking their earnings as soon as they deem they have realized sufficient to the old country to live on.

It is a common custom with the English speaking race wherever they Common custom. go as business men. In China they do exactly what the Chinaman is accused of doing in British Columbia. It is their predominant idea, and it is only when by their treatment in the foreign country, becoming natur- alized and acquiring the local right to intervene in its management, their accumulation of property which will be benefited by their remaining, their own personal self interest, and their being put on an equality in every respect as to legal rights with the most favored in the land, that English residents entirely abandon the idea of leaving.

By Provincial Legislation in British Columbia and the general hosti- Exclusion. lity evinced towards them, the Chinese are practically prohibited from becoming attached to the country. They are made, so far as Provincial Legislation can go, perpetual aliens, and with the Indians are by positive terms denied the political and municipal franchises attached to property and person, conceded to other British subjects, born or naturalized, when of sufficient age to exercise them.

Of these men doing business in the Province to $1,300,000 a year, con- tributing largely to the Dominion revenue, permitted by Dominion legislation to be naturalized and become British subjects, not one how- ever respectable in character, well informed, or law abiding, however contributing to the public and municipal revenues by payment of Domi- nion, Provincial and Local taxation, is permitted to take any part in the consideration of the public welfare. It is but human nature under the circumstances to take their earnings from the place. What Englishmen do it hardly becomes Englishmen to object to in others. There is no estimate however of the actual amount in gold the Chinese really take out of the country, nor any approximation made thereto.

Their own views on this point may be gathered from the answer of Huang Tsun Hsien, page 41.

Q. Have you any further information to impart ?- A. " I would like to say this. That it is charged that the Chinese do not emigrate to foreign countries to remain, but only to earn a sum of money and return to their homes in China. It is only about thirty years since our people commenced emigrating to other lands. A large number have gone to the Straits Settlements, Manilla, Cochin-China and the West India Islands, and are permanently settled there with their families. In Cuba, fully seventy-

five per cent. have married native women, and adopted those Islands as their future homes. Many of those living in the Sandwich Islands have done the same. This of course depends wholly upon their treatment in any. country they emigrate to. As a matter of fact they do not assimilate as readily as the German, Irish, English and other European immigrants who come here, as their civilization is so widely different from that of China. There is quite a large number of foreigners in China, but few of whom have brought their families, and the number is very small indeed who have adopted that country as their future home. You must recollect that the Chinese immigrants coming to this country are denied all the rights and privileges extended to others in the way of citizenship ; the laws compel them to remain aliens. I know a great many Chinese will be glad to remain here permanently with their families, if they are allowed to be naturalized and can enjoy privileges and rights."

Charges of deser- tion of sick not .sustained.

In this same phase of the question comes the statement " that their. sick and destitute are left to perish uncared for and in every walk of life they prove themselves to be an expensive and objectionable class of inhabitants."

This statement must have been put into the Petition through inadver- Attorney General. tence. In the course of the enquiry-not only was no proof given that any expense had ever been incurred by the Province or the City of Victoria, City of New-Westminster or any of the Municipalities, for sick and destitute Chinese,-but the Attorney General in his examination in answer to a direct enquiry to that effect said " we have not had to Mr. Robert Ward. support Chinese emigrants " and Mr. Robert Ward one of the leading merchants of Victoria to whom most of the ships bringing Chinese Immi- grants were consigned, states in answer to the question put to him on that point : " the majority of emigrants from China consists of laborers from 18 to 40 years of age," in 1882 my firm had between 5,000 and 6,000 Chinese emigrants consigned to them from Hong Kong ; these men Health on arrival. were under engagement to the contractor of the Pacific Railroad and . arrived in ten different vessels, each ship carried one or more surgeons as required by the Government regulations in Hong Kong and these surgeons each reported to me favorably on the health of these passengers. Probably not over eight men out of the numbers I have given died at sea, the men were landed on arrival and at once dispatched to the interior to the dif- ferent parts of railroad construction.'

Unsustained charge.

In answer to the direct enquiry : " Have you any system of public · fund relief, and do they often become a burden on that fund or upon the private charity of white citizens ?" the answer was : " None excepting benevolent societies, and I have never heard of a Chinese resident having received relief from any of such societies." The Attorney-General men- tioned but one instance where a charge had been made, namely, of the abandonment of the sick and destitute, but in that case it was shown that the charge had been investigated in the Supreme Court, was not sustained, and the defendant had been immediately acquitted by the jury.

But this phase of the case cannot be dismissed without a reference to the extent of the Imperial and Canadian trade with China. Its magni- tude far exceeds the contemplation of the promoters of this movement, and must have escaped their consideration. An American writer, in 1877, in contrasting the trade of his own country with China with that of Great Britain, makes the following observations :

English trade.

" England has the largest share of the trade of China ; she took the lead when the country was opened to commerce, and has managed to. maintain it. The entrances and clearance of British steamers at Sanghai

for a recent year were 1,029, and of American ships for the same period 821. Of sailing vessels there were 414 British entrances against 211 American. The total of steamers and sailing vessels were 1,443 British, and 1,032 American, the former with an aggregate of 1,087,605 tons, and the latter with 697,283 tons. The average tonnage perhaps is greater for British than for American commerce, as one can readily perceive by analysis of the above figures. For the year under consideration (for freight imports at Shanghai other than specie) Great Britain is put down for 20,790,000 taels, India for 16,613,000, Singapore and the Straits for 518,000, Australia for 488,000."

A tael is worth $1,333, therefore by the simple process of adding one- A tael. third we have the actual amount in dollars as follows :-

Great Britain

.20,790,000 + 6,930,000 = $27,720,000

India.

16,613,000 + 5,537,666 =

22,150,666

Singapore.

518,000 + 172,666 : 690,666

Australia

488,000 + 162,666 = 650,666

Total

$51,211,998

For Great Britain and three of her possessions $51,211,998 at one Canadian trade- port alone in China in one year. with China.

The Canadian trade with China and Japan, as returned by the Com- missioner of Customs, shows a striking increase, having nearly quadrupled itself in five years. It is as follows :-

Statement of the value of goods imported from and exported to China and Japan by the Dominion of Canada during each year from 1879 to 1884, inclusive :

CHINA AND JAPAN

Year.

Imported.

Exported.

Total aggregate trade.

1879

$ 448,962

$ 56,551

$ 505,513

1880

893,911

37,546

931,457

1881

1,410,973

19,761

1,430,734

1882

1,529,042

106,675

1,635,717

1883

1,645,254

105,388

1,750,642

1884

1,909,562

60,979

1,970,541

J. JOHNSON, Commissioner of Customs.

Customs Department, Ottawa, Oct. 25, 1884.

Thus we see that the aggregate of Canadian trade with China and Japan for the year 1884 alone amounted to $1,970,541, of which $1,848,- 587 paid duty to the Dominion revenue and contributed to the finances of Canada-being upon tea, rice, etc., necessaries of life which could not be raised or grown in Canada.

All of these statistics will have to be regarded as bearing upon the general propositions hereinafter to be laid down.

CHAPTER II.

DEVELOPMENT OF BRITISH COLUMBIA.

With reference to the influence of their presence on the development of the Province it may safely be said that there are several industries that would not have succeeded-perhaps it might be said undertaken-if it had not been for the opportunity of obtaining their labor.

Salmon canneries. The value of the canned salmon put up for exportation and consump- tion in British Columbia amounted in

1879 to

$ 395,882.54

1880 to

450,781.52

1881 to

1,142,288.00

1882 to.

1,458,982 00

These returns are severally taken from the Canadian Almanack for the years 1881, 1882, 1883 and 1884. Mr. Anderson, the Official Inspector of Fisheries for British Columbia, in his return to the Minister of Marine and Fisheries dated 11th January, 1882 (page 20), gives the yield and value somewhat differently, namely, for

1880 $ 713,335.32

1881

1,454,321.26

1882, in his report dated 20th February, 1883. 1,402,835.50

1883, report dated 15th Feb. 1884. 1,079,606.00

The falling off in the last year being due to a periodical fluctuation every five years of the number of the salmon entering the Fraser River, or, as he expresses it, " a purely natural and explicable cause."

But even at the lowest of these statements the industry is most impor- tant, and it may safely be affirmed could not have been prosecuted without the aid of Chinese labor, as shown in the testimony of several of the leading firms carrying on that business on the Fraser River.

The Commissioners would here observe that they have not deemed it necessary to make extracts from the evidence taken before themselves in British Columbia, as copiously as they will be found in the following chapter to have been made from the evidence before the Committee of the House of Commons in 1879-the former being printed in full in this report and submitted with it can be referred to with much greater facility than the latter, which is only to be found in the Sessional papers of the House five years ago, aud therefore not so readily at the command of the public or those now interested in this question.

Vegetable Gardening is another industry which also may be said to owe its existence in British Columbia, in a great extent-to them-and of which they now practically have the control .- The profits from it up to this period have not been sufficient to operate as inducement to white- labor-with the present number of the white population-and the more productive pursuits that are open to that class .- At the same time it is shown in the evidence-that even as to that industry-if content with reasonable and moderate profits, it could be successfully carried on by the whites, and from the known preference which exists throughout the whole Province in favor of white labor and the products from it, and the dislike against the Chinese and their modes of cultivation-the Chinese them- selves could soon be driven from the field.

It admits of no question that without their labor, the construction and

completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway would have been indefinitely Canadian Pacific postponed. Railway.

What effect the construction of this Road will have upon the imme- diate further development and settlement of the Province may be judged from its effect upon the Northwest Territories, and will hereafter be referred to.

It has been strongly urged however, that white immigration has been Effect upon white deterred from coming into the Province from a disinclination, to compete immigration. with Chinese labor.

The evidence shows that this has not been so to any material extent, Causes. if at all. Other causes have been mainly instrumental to that end.

Ist. The very great expense of reaching British Columbia from the great sources of labor supply.

Expense.

2nd. That in coming to British Columbia from Europe, the British Deterring induce- Isles, and the Eastern parts of America, emigrants had to pass princi- ments. pally through the United States, where greater inducements and better prospects were held out to them to remain, and where the field of labor was quite as large and quite as productive.

3rd. That from about 1864, after the first collapse, as it might be termed, of the great Mining expectations formed of British Columbia, and the consequent departure of large numbers who had come into the Province in 1858, up to and until about 1877, people abroad, Uncertainty as to and people in the Province had very little confidence in its future. There future of B. C. up was a long period of depression, of little enterprise, and great shrinkage tơ 1877-78. of values, its history was a succession of disappointments, and very many left it to better themselves elsewhere. The lands for settlement, both on the Island and the Mainland, were locked up by the twenty mile belt concession to the Dominion Government, granted as a consideration or inducement for the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, of which the construction itself up to 1877 or 1878, was most uncertain and a source of continued conflict between the Dominion and Provincial Governments. When properly analyzed and understood, it will be found that these several causes had more to do with preventing white settlers coming into the country, than any fear or dislike of the Chinese, to Chinese competi- which might be added the fact, that of the resources of British Columbia tion inopertative as a preventive. very little was known abroad, or even in Canada, of which it forms an important part.

This conclusion is materially strengthened by the fact that immigrants are now coming into the Province in large numbers though the Chinese are there in greater numbers than ever before, and engaged in almost all the pursuits requiring manual and unskilled labor.

A return from the immigrant agent at New Westminster, under date of the 18th August, 1884, states :- ': The number of immigrants settled on the District in one " mainland since the opening of the railway belt in June, 1883, a little year between June 1883 and " over twelve months, is 3,795 persons, Out of this number, 3,295 have June 1884, 3795. " settled in the New Westminster district; 590 have settled chiefly in " Shuswhap, Okanagan, Spilmacheen and Kamloops country." He further remarks that "they are all a very desirous class of settlers, and " with considerable means."

It may be well questioned whether a single industrious bond fidê intending white settler was ever prevented from coming to British Columbia from fear of Chinese competition alone : some other cause pre- vented ; and, as was well known and repeatedly and publicly stated, the inability of obtaining proper land for settlement, or even information as to when or where it could be obtained, was, up to 1883, the principal

Emigrants in one

and main reason. The dislike of Chinese competition is an objection of later growth, and pertains more to the class of daily laborers than agri- cultural settlers.

· Of the other great source of productive industry of the Province, coal mining, a return from the collector of customs dated 5th November, 1884, shows that for the three preceeding financial years, the quantity and value exported was as follows :-

Tons

Value

Year ending 30th June, 1882

210,556

$713,147

1883

193,485

674,208

1884

218,856

766,018

622,897

$2,153,373

The bearing the presence of the Chinese has hitherto had upon this. particular industry, may be gathered from the observations of the mana- gers of two great companies, the Vancouver and the Wellington.

In answers to enquiries as to the effect of their presence when first they came into the Province, and its subsequent development, Mr. ROBINS, Superintendent of the Vancouver Coal Mining and Land Company (limited). says :-

" When the Chinese first came to this province they no doubt supplied a want then felt, and their coming was encouraged and welcomed, espe- cially I may add by the Vancouver Coal Mining and Land Company (limited), which I represent ; but the laboring population were always. strongly averse to their introduction. At the time of their coming here my company had been suffering from a strike of the white laborers, and we accepted the Chinese as a weapon with which to settle the dispute. With a little more trouble we might, I think, have obtained Indians to. answer our purpose equally well."

" The encouragement given to the Chinese by employers of labor has not been withdrawn up to the present time, whilst the anti-Chinese feeling seems to have grown stronger every year."

" The presence of the Chinese has no doubt contributed, to the develop- ment of the Province."

" White people can now find remunerative employment. In fact, wages. are high enough to attract the best class of white labor. Of nearly 400 white laborers employed by my company not one earns less than $2 a day."

And in a subsequent statement he says his company employs over 390 white miners and laborers, and about 150 Chinese. The latter earn from $1 to $1.25 per day.

Mr. Dunsmuir, the proprietor of the Wellington mines, to similar enquiries, speaking after a residence of thirty-two years, says: "he now has in his employ 700 or 800 whites and Chinese-the former do the skilled labor, the latter the manual work. The condition of the labor market before the Chinese began to arrive in this Province was that few laborers were required of any kind, as very little work was being prosecu- ted either upon this Island or upon the Mainland. The limited amount of work was, at one time, performed by Indians, who, with few exceptions, could not be depended upon for more than a month at a time. White labor was tried under ground and at a high rate of wages, but it was diffi- cult to obtain that labor. Their places to-day, to a great extent, are filled by Chinese. Domestic servants in those days were not much needed, and there was very little demand for ordinary white labor.

" The immigration of Chinese has, I consider, materially aided the gen- eral development of the country, from the fact that they have assisted in

pushing to completion the public works undertaken, and could always be depended upon as a labor power. They have, morever, pitched into that kind of work which from its arduous nature and humble character, has deterred the proportion of incoming white men from accepting willingly in a new country where they immediately expected to better their position, or step into a better place than the one they had just left."

" I do not think the gradual influx of Chinese has retarded the incoming White immigra- of white labor, as I find few of those new white arrivals willing to under- take the work performed by them in other countries, but declined here and given to Chinese laborers."

tion not retarded.

" Had it not been for the available Chinese labor the same progress and development in this Province could not have been made, and their in-fiow of capital. presence has therefore stimulated investments of capital in many directions, and made it more remunerative undoubtedly for the reasons given."

Presence of Chi- nese stimulated

ceal-mining would be seriously re-

" And I may say that, were it not for Chinese labor, the business I am But for Chinese engaged in specially, coal-mining, would be seriously retarded and curtailed, and it would be impossible to sell this product and compete favorably in tarded. the market of San Francisco with vessels from other ports which carry coal as ballast. It may be stated in this connection that San Francisco is, in fact, the only important market for coals from the mines of this Province at present."

" They have assisted, so far, by performing labor in coal mines which Extent to which others refused to perform, at wages that made such mining pay. Without buted to develop- Chinese contri- them this department of the mining industry would have had slower and ment of mining. less important development in this province, and the export trade of this product would have been infinitely less, because it would have been im- possible but for their labor to compete in this respect in foreign markets."

. As to the future, these two great employers of labor differ, Mr. Robins says :

"Their presence here is far less necessary than it has been in years Chinese no longer past, white labor being more abundant since the opening of railways has formerly. so necessary as brought the East and West into closer communication."

" If the Chinese were to leave the Province in a body no doubt much No inconvenience inconvenience would be caused to every person employing them ; but, if would be exper- ienced if Chinese they were to leave gradually as they have come into the Province, I do were to leave not think any inconvenience would be experienced." gradually.

" In my opinion it is not necessary to retain Chinese in the Province, but their removal should not be sudden."

"A free immigration of white people of the laboring class would enable labor Chinese us to do without the Chinese element altogether.

"A poll-tax of, say $50, to be levied on every Chinese immigrant, A poll-tax of $50 would be the best solution of the difficulty. A lower tax I do not think, on each Chinese would be effective." immigrant,

"A combined effort on the part of the people of this Province and its legislature to encourage white immigration and discourage the employ- ment of Chinese effectually would furnish a supply of white labor, exclude Chinese immigration and at the same time develop the natural resources of the colony as speedily and safely as they are now being developed."

" I have only one observation to make in addition. I have noticed Where Chinese that where Chinese labor is easily procured white youths from fifteen years of age and upwards do not find such ready employment as else- do not find em- where, and consequently are not so well trained in habits of industry. ployment. The manual (unskilled) labor that their fathers followed is looked upon as only fit for an inferior race and there is growing up amongst us a class of idlers who will not conduce to the well-being of the state."

With a free immi- gration of white could be dispensed with.

labor easily pro- cured young iads

2

As to the future, Mr. Dunsmuir says :

" I consider the agitation against the Chinese as largely political, for I have heard no argument against them as yet which convinces me that they are a drawback to this Province or to this part of the Dominion. I consider their presence as beneficial to the progress and development of the country, as an important factor in the labor market ; and I am satis- fied, so far as my personal experience goes, that the Province generally is not unfavorably influenced by Chinese labor, race prejudices to the con- trary notwithstanding. I do not believe that any class of our people assisting to develop this Province are suffering from the competition of these people. White men decline to do the work given to the Chinese, and could not live in this country at the present prices of products on the wages paid the Chinamen. Some of the trades, such as shoemakers, tailors, cigar-makers, etc., are affected by Chinese labor and are compelled to manufacture goods at a low figure, the ordinary workingman, agri- culturist, etc., is, however, benefited by the competition. If the mine- owners were compelled to pay the wages now asked and obtained by white laborers, (supposing they would consent to do the manual labor for which the Chinese receive much smaller pay,) they, the mine-owners, could not compete in the markets now open to them, especially San- Francisco, the principal market for British Columbia coal, where, other foreign coal product is carried as ballast.

" I believe the exclusion of Chinese would retard the construction of public works and increase the cost of them very materially both as regards those under way and those contemplated.

" In regard to legislation I do not think any measures of a prohibitive nature are required at this early day, nor do I believe that legislation should take place either to restrict or regulate the incoming of Chinese, for the simple reason that they will not arrive in larger numbers than the requirements of the labor market demand.

Excluding Chi- nese imperils our chances of con- " I may state that it is my belief that the grand plan of opening up and controlling the Asiatic trade by a Canadian railway from Ocean to trolling the Asiatic Ocean would be seriously affected, if not actually defeated, by legislating trade as well as jeopardizes Pro- vincial enter- prises. the Chinese out of the country at this time. In addition to jeopardising provincial enterprises, now in successful operation, other portions of our Dominion, expecting benefits and profits from transcontinental traffic over the Canadian Pacific Railway, tapping Oriental trade, would of course share in any evil effects resulting from injudicious or preventive legislation.

" If it were possible for Parliament to bring a bill in speedily to give the Chinaman the franchise there would be less anti-Chinese agitation ; and, I think legislation excluding the Chinese would kill the prospect of an Asiatic trade with Canada."

The views of these two gentlemon on the other points of this enquiry are equally valuable, but do not immediately bear on the subject of this chapter.

Bearing on the past development, as to these three sources of industry the Salmon Canneries, railroad construction, and coal mining, accumu- lating and distributing wealth, and advancing the country in all its material aspects, aggregating collectively an addition of many millions to the trade of the Province, the testimony is clear and indisputable, that they would not have succeeded without the aid of Chinese labor. If, with reference to domestic service, we examine the statements of those who are not employers of labor on a large scale, but simply contributories to the general welfare by expenditures and industries in the ordinary avocations

of life, thereby disseminating the means of livelihood and aiding in the development of the country, (individually, perhaps to a small degree, but in the aggregate to a very large degree) we find observation after obser- vation that they could not have remained in the country without that source of supply. Whatever the future may require, it is vain to contend that British Columbia would at this day, be in the position to command that future as she now has a prospect of doing, had she not had the opportunity of Chinese labor, and availed herself of it.

CHAPTER 3.

SOCIAL AND MORAL ASPECTS.

Whatever may be the results of the material or pecuniary aspect of this question, it must be admitted, that if its moral and social aspect be of such a character as to pollute the social atmosphere,-to degrade and demoralize the people,-and to introduce vice and disease, then whatever Importance of may be the consequence, the prevention of the latter is of more importance than the gain by the former.

The influences which destroy the healthy tone of a community are more subtle in their nature, more tardy and more insiduous in their approach, than the causes which lead to business and commercial prosperity.

The evidence therefore taken on this point in British Columbia as well as in San Francisco and elsewhere, where opportunity of more lengthened experience, and observation on a greater scale was afforded, should be impartially as well as thoroughly examined, not .to sustain a foregone conclusion either for or against the question, but to arrive at a truthful solution.

The promoters of the movement against the Chinese have repeatedly asserted that sufficient evidence has already been laid before Parliament to warrant prohibitive Legislation, covering the main objections to such immigration. These objections may be classified as follows :-

1st. The absorption of employment to the exclusion of white labor, and Objections. consequent retardation of the settlements of the country.

2nd. Absorption of domestic service and immorality engendered thereby.

3rd. Personal uucleanliness and filthy habits of the Chinese, diseases, leprosy and crowding of habitations.

4th. Opium smoking, prostitution, slavery and immorality.

5th. Secret organizations, want of truth, evasion of taxation and expense to the administration of justice.

6th. Non-identify with the people of the country and withdrawal of capital resulting from their labor.

The evidence laid before Parliament will be found in the report of the Evidence before Select Committee on Chinese Labor and Immigration to the House of Commons on the 14th of May. 1879, published in Vol. XIII. of the Journals, Appendix No. 4.

There are four conclusions stated in that report :

Ist. If more evidence is wanted than that accompanying the report it Report of Com- should be taken in British Columbia.

2nd. That the report of the Joint Committee of the Congress of the United States and of the Senate Committee of the State of California on Chinese Labor and Immigration, contain much evidence showing the un- desirableness of encouraging Chinese labor and immigration.

3rd. That, from the evidence taken before the Select Committee, they believe that Chinese immigration ought not to be encouraged.

4th. That, from the evidence taken before the Committee, they are of opinion that Chinese labor ought not to be employed on Dominion public works.

Before this Committee, of which Mr. De Cosmos, one of the members from British Columbia, was chairman (as before mentioned), the following persons only were examined :-

Mr. Bunster, M.P., from British Columbia.

Mr. Thompson, M.P.,

Dr. McInnes, M.P.,

66 Senator McDonald, F. J. Barnard, M.P., 66

Mr. Dewdney. M.P., Senator Cornwall,

These gentlemen, with the chairman representing the Province and having a personal and practical knowledge of the subject on which they were examined, as bearing upon all parts of the Province, must be credited with having given testimony in accordance with their convictions. We quote from this evidence the language of the witnesses, as given before the Committee, that a judgment may be formed not through any suggested medium, or to any particularly suggested end, but that each reader may judge for himself. There is also another reason. In all judicial enquiries the evidence of the witnesses, where there is conflicting testimony, should be given in their own words and language, in order that its value may be best estimated. In cases of such conflict the test of value varies. If the question be of fact, the test is veracity coupled with opportunity, accuracy of observation and memory. If it be of opinion, the test is competency coupled with knowledgo, education and experience. In both absence or presence of motive or interests. These rules are simple, they are clear. Mr. BUNSTER says :---

" The tendency of the presence of the Chinese in the country is to exclude servant girls from employment; and the great cause of this exclu- sion lies in the fact that the white servant girls feel that it degrades them, and as a consequence they will not come to the country and compete with and work on the same terms as the Chinamen.

"The feeling of the masses of the people in British Columbia is strongly against Chinese. I now refer to the people that manufacture, and the people who are trying to build up the country, and the merchants and others, aside from what I call the snob aristocracy. These people are all against the Chinese, with that exception. There are a few would-be aristocrats who like to put on frills, and they are fond of having Chinese servants. They think that it is something grand, and something away up. They do not care about employing a Sewash, though these, who are Indians, are equally as good servants as are the Chinese, in my opinion.

"Near Nanaimo somewhere about 300 Chinamen were employed around or about the mines.

" The Chinese do not go down underneath the ground. They are afraid to go down below the surface of the earth, and they work altogether on the top. They screen coal and do such like work, and they shift cars about.

" The farmers are not favorable to the Chinese. They are considered down on these people. They say that the Chinese interfere with them a

great deal in the way of getting groceries before they get their crops in. Formerly the white farmers were able to bring a few vegetables to mar- ket and to take home in exchange some groceries, which were very accept- able to their families, but now the Chinese have done away with all that kind of business."

"Q. Would it be good policy on the part of the Government in the Exclusion of Chi- construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway to prohibit the employment C. P. R. cons- nese labor, on of Chinese labor on it ?- A. It would be the best kind of policy that truction. the Government could pursue in regard to this work, and for this reason : if they employ white laborers on the road, a great many of the white laborers will remain in the country. They will take up a tract of land and locate upon it, and if these men had families either here in Canada, or in Ireland, or anywhere else, it would induce them to bring their families out to this country, when they would become customers of the Government by buying goods, which being dutiable, at the Custom house would lead to the payment of revenues."

Q. " Could sufficient white labor be obtained for the purpose of building Sufficiency this road in the province of British Columbia ?- A. Yes ; any quantity of obtainable. white labor, if the road was built, would swarm into the Province from the State of California and from Europe. At the present time there are not sufficient works going on on the Pacific coast, to employ all the available white labor. At the present time there is no inducement for a white man to go out there and take his family out, or to go out there and take others out."

Q, " Suppose that the Government advertised for tenders for the con- Would not add to struction of one hundred miles of that line of railway, and if in the cove- expense. nant of the contract the contractor was compelled not to employ Chinese laborers, what would you suppose would be the difference in the tender, would this qualification make any difference in your opinion ?- A. I do not believe that this circumstance would make a difference of $1. I think that contractors have found that white labor is preferable to Chinese labor. I have heard contractors, who used white labor in Southern California, say that it proved cheaper than Chinese labor."

" A great many improvements have been made in the machinery which is used on farms, and there are so many young farmers growing up that this really gives us a surplus of white labor on the Pacific coast, in certain parts. There would be no difficulty whatever experienced in procuring a sufficiency of white labor ; as I said before, I am satisfied that it would make no difference whatever in the cost of the Canadian Pacific railway if the Dominion Government advertised for tenders for the construction of one hundred miles of the Pacific railroad, and stipulated in the contract that no Chinamen should be employed in building the road."

Mr. Thompson, (Cariboo), says : " Q. In what respect are their presence in Objectionable. No any country an injury to it? A. This is the case, because they are a amalgamation. separate race from the whites. They do not amalgamate with the whites, nor do they adopt our customs. They live among themselves. They have their own religion and also they have secret societies, by means of which to a very great extent, they are governed. They contribute very little to Competition with. the wealth of the country, and to a certain extent, they impoverish it by white labor. competing with white men who, if they settled permanently in the coun- try, would improve it."

Take no part in politics. Q. " Do you think that the Chinese are calculated to make good citizens, and to take part in the affairs of the country ?- A. I have never known Exclusion by law. any of them to do so, so far. I do not believe that in any part of the Pacific coast the Chinese population takes any interest in politics ; in fact they are excluded from taking any part in political matters by law."

Mining claims.

Q. " Well, in the mining districts do they take up claims that have been abandoned, or do they take up claims from the Government like other citizens and work them ?- A. They take up claims in the ordinary way ; they take up claims that have been abandoned ; they buy claims from other miners, and they work at the mines for wages."

Objectionable reduce wages.

Q. " In what way are they objectionable ?-- A. Well, they reduce the rate of wages to a certain extent ; and they very often prevent white people from getting employment."

-

Q. "In what way are they useful ?- A. In some sections you require them, but as a general thing I consider that the white miners would much prefer to have them out of the country altogether. I say that in some sections where there are poor diggings, which will not justify their owners in employing white labor, they are useful."

Useful in poor ·diggings.

Q. Do you employ any of them, Mr. Thompson ?- A. I have employed them ; that is, companies in which I am interested employed them.

Trust worthy.

Q. Are the Chinese a trustworthy and reliable class of people ?- A. If you watch them they do very well.

Stealing.

Q. They require watching, do they ?- A. Yes ; they will steal anything they can lay their hands on if they get a favorable opportunity for doing so. Of course, there are white men who will steal, too, but the China- man can never be trusted to work by himself in any place where there is coarse gold that can be picked up.

Witness's expo- rience limited to mining districts.

Q. " You limit that practice to the mining districts ; I refer to the habits of stealing which you attribute to them ?- A. Well, I have no experience anywhere else in this regard."

Q.`" In what way are they prohibited from becoming citizens ?- A. They are prohibited from becoming voters."

Female white labor.

Q. "Can you explain to the committee how it is that male Chinese are employed in British Columbia in preference to female white labor, or why it is that female white labor is not employed there in this capacity ?- A. I think that there is a great scarcity of female white labor in the Province."

Getting married.

Q. Do you not naturally suppose that the high rate of wages that is given to the Chinese for domestic work, which females naturally do, would induce a large immigration of white women to the province ?- A. The female servants that come to British Columbia have a habit of get- ting married after they have been in service for a month or two ; and as a consequence they leave their employers.

White labor cost twice as much per man.

Q. " What is your idea as to the cost of white labor on public works, in comparison with the figure at which Chinese labor could obtained be for this purpose ?- A. I should think that white labor would probably cost twice as much as Chinese labor per man."

Q. "It would then cost the Government twice as much to construct Cost. public works with white labor as it would with the aid of Chinese labor? -A. That would be the case if as many whites were required. It is generally considered that three Chinamen are equal to two white men ; I think that is about the average."

Q. "Is there any prospect of the Chinese becoming permanent settlers No prospect of -of their settling upon land and of making their homes permanent in permanent set- their becoming this country ?- A. I do not think that they would do so. They would Iers. probably settle for a short time in the country, until they could make some money and then return whith their gains to China from whence they came."

Q. "Senator Cornwall says the Chinese do not like liquor ?- A. I know Use brandy that in the mines, where a number of Chinamen are working together on their own account, when they make any sort of decent wages they usual- ly have a regular supply of brandy."

Q. "Do they buy French or Chinese brandy ?- A. They get French French brandy. brandy if they can procure it. I have seen them going to a store fre- quently with their pass-bock and obtain a gallon, or two gallons of bran- dy, and take it away to their claims ; but at the same time, I do not think they are in the habit of drinking to excess, except on the occasion of the celebration of the new year, when they generally have a little spree."

Q. " You do not see many of them in a state of intoxication ?- A. No, Seldom intoxi- not often ; I have seen some of them a little the worse of liquor, how- cated. ever."

Q. "Are the Chinese cleanly in their habits ?- A. By no means, though Not cleanly in I rather think that as a general thing they are cleanly in their persons. habits. They wash a good deal, and I believe, change their clothes frequently, but their houses are by no means cleanly. In some cases, their rooms Cleanly in person. themselves may be clean, but their appurtenances are filthy. I have known them to keep hogs in their own houses.

"They generally keep themselves pretty clean. They have barbers to Outside of houses shave their heads and faces-their heads up to where the queue com- filthy. mences -- but they have no idea of cleanliness around their houses. Even if their houses are cleanly in the inside, outside they are filthy."

Q. How do the Chinese compare with the whites in point of intelli- Intelligence. gence ?- A. Well, that depends of what you call intelligence. If by that term you mean smartness in the way of roguery, I think that they can hold their own with any class.

Q. The Chinese are quick in that way ?- A. Quick ? I should think Quick. they were.

Q. In point of education how do they compare with the whites ?- A. I Education. should say that every one of them whom I have seen can write his name.

Q. They can read and write their own language I suppose ?- A. Yes they can read and write their own language.

Q. As a rule this is the case ?- A. Yes.

In trade honorable and straightforward.

Q. Are they honorable in their dealings with the white people ? A. As a general think in the way of trade they are. The Chinese store- keepers are generally very straightforward, at least, when you do busi- ness with them you can depend on getting what you agree for.

As witnesses not reliable.

Q. As witnesses are they reliable ?- A. No they aro not ; it is just the contrary.

Not many Chinese female.

Q. Are there many Chinese females in the Province of British Colum- bia, in proportion of the number of males ?- A. There are not many Chinese women in the Province in proportion of the males.

Prostitutes.

. What is the general character af the Chinese women who do live in the Province of British Columbia ? A. Well, they are nearly all of the lowest class of prostitutes, though some of the Chinese traders have their wives with them. There is a trader in my district who, I believe, has three wiwes. He is a rich trader. I know that when this proposed tax of $40 a head was spoken of, he said it would come pretty hard on him as he would have to pay for his three wives.

Three wives.

Advisable to check immigra- tion.

I think it would be advisable to check the immigration of Chinese to the Province of British Columbia, if that is possible.

This question has been brought under discussion a good deal ; that is, as to whether it would be better for the Government of Canada to pay white men higher wages, or to employ Chinamen in the building of public Better for govern- works at a less rate of wages. My opinion is, that it would be better ment to pay white men 50 per cent more. to pay white men at least 50 per cent more than Chinamen ; even if they had to employ the white labor at a higher rate ; this would be advisable, because the amount that would be contributed to the revenue of the country by white men would be so much larger than the sum which would be so contributed by Chinamen.

Chinese as market gardeners, driven out by Italians.

There is one thing which I may mention to the Committee : there has been a great deal said about the superiority of the Chinese over the whites as market gardeners. I believe, that they are very industrious indeed but when I was in the city of San Francisco, I was told that the Italians were there driving the Chinese out of the business of market gardening.

Reason why.

Q. Was this result being brought about by the superiority of the Italians over the Chinsse in this respect, or by combination ?- A. It was brought about by their hard work, and by the attention which they give to this same branch of agriculture which has been pursued by the Chinese. Such was the case to a great extent about the city of San Francisco.

English market

Q. What advantage would a Chinaman have over a practical English market gardener who understood his business professionally and thorough- ly. Would not the English gardener under such circumstances do as well as the Chinaman ?- A. A Chinaman will work over ground which another man-a white man-would hardly think of touching. The Chinamen work so patiently and hard, they labor from early in the morning until late at night, and are content with such small returns that white men do not like to compete with them in this particular.

Chinese hard labor.

Italians.

Q. They sell the products of their labor at a cheaper rate than white men will, I presume ?- A. Yes, they sell their vegetables cheaper, of course ; as I was saying, in San Francisco the Italians have there gone in- to the market gardening business latterly, and are driving the Chinese.

4

out. Of course, the people prefer to purchase their vegetables from the Whites have pre- Italians, when they can get these things at a reasonable rate. ference when reasonable.

Q. Are the Chinamen, generally speaking, a sober people ?- A. They Chinese sober. are generally sober. They do drink liquors, as I say, but it is very rarely that you see them intoxicated. If they do get intoxicated, they have sense enough to stay in the house.

DR. McINNIS, says :- I reside in the city of New Westminster, on the New West- mainland of British Columbia. We have here, I suppose, about 300 minster. permanent Chinese settlers, and during the salmon fishing season we have Salmon cann eries from 1,200 to 1,500. They are used here largely in making fish cans, and in various ways in connection with the salmon canneries.

Q. Where do they come from ?- A. From various parts ; from Oregon, Whence from. Washington territory and California. I believe some come from Victoria, too.

Q. How long do they remain with you in your fishing season ?- A. They Chinese settlers. generally remain two or three months. We have, besides, always from 200 to 300 pormanent Chinese settlers in the city.

Q. By permanent settlers, do you mean those who remain a life time ? -A. No, I mean those who make it their permanent home for a number of years.

Q. How long do they remain ?- A. They generally remain from five to ten years. Whenever they save from $500 to $1,000, which they consider enough to enable them to go back to China and live like princes to the end of their days. I have been told that they can live on from one to two cents a day in China, so that when they accumulate that amount, they can go back to China and buy half a dozen wives.

Q. Please state your views on the subject of Chinese labor, and the Chinese labor once desirability of encouraging Chinese immigration ?- A. I think there was a necessity. a time in British Columbia when Chinese labor was really a necessity, but certainly that time has gone by, and we have now more white labor of white lobor at Superabundance in British Columbia than can find profitable employment. present.

Q. So long as the Chinese remained there ?- A. So long as the Chinese In canneries, Chi- remained there. We pay Chinamen in the canneries, from $25 to $35 a nese wages. month. They are all bondsmen.

Q. What do you pay white labor at the same time ?- A. From about White wages. $30 to $40 a month.

Q. What do you mean by bondsmen ?- A. I have been informed by Chinese are bonds Chinamen themselves that they give bonds, before leaving China, to men. Chinese companies, to work for them for a term of from five to ten years, and all that the Company have to do in order to carry out their part of the contract, is to furnish them with the bare necessities of life and their clothing, and the company have all their earnings. After they serve their time, of course they go then and work for themselves and make as much money as they possible can and go back to China as quickly as possible.

Q. Do you consider Chinese as a high or a low class of immigrants ?-

Low class immi- grants.

A. I consider them a low class-certainly much lower than any white class of people I have ever come in contact with.

Q. Both male and female ?- A. Both male and female. They have certainly a very demoralizing effect upon the white people of British Co- lumbia, or any other country in which they have gained a permanent foothold.

Q. Have you come among them much in your profession ?- A. I have.

Q. Can you give us your experience of their habits ?- A. Their habits are of a most filthy and immoral kind. Vices are very prevalent among them.

Q. Of what nature ?- A. Well, of a licentious nature. I think we have not over half a dozen Chinese women in New Westminster all told. They are all prostitutes, and it is a notorious fact that nearly all the Chinese women who come to British Columbia-and I believe to the Pacific Coast generally-are prostitutes.

Q. As to their habits of morality ; have you professionally, or otherwise, any knowledge as to that, or do you speak from general impression of these moral habits ?- A. From actual knowledge-actual experience.

Q. Are any matters of that kind brought up before the Courts ?- A. No, I do not mean to say that their immorality is from seduction; but they are all diseased. There is scarcely a Chinaman who comes to British Columbia, but brings with him the most virulent form of syphilis. That syphilis is communicated to the Indians and the white population, and the consequence is that, I believe, in a quarter of a century, out of our present population of 30,000 or 40,000 Indians there will not be 5,000 of them alive. It is killing them off by hundreds every year.

Q. Does that contamination spread from the Chinese ?- A. Yes, prin- cipally from the Chinese. They appear to have a more virulent form of it than any people I know of.

Q. Is it not a fact that this disease has been carrying off the Indian tribes for the last 50 years-ever since they came in contact with the white people on the Pacific Coast ?- A. To a more or less extent, I believe that is quite correct, but not in the same proportion that it has since the Chinese have gone to the Pacific Coast.

Q. You think it is much more prevalent now than formerly among the Indians ?- A. I do.

Q. Do the Indians and Chinese mix very much ?- A. Not a great deal.

Q. Then you speak from your professional knowledge ?- A. Yes.

Q. Are they subject to scrofula or leprosy ?- A. I have never seen a case of leprosy among them.

Q. I believe there are some cases of leprosy among them ?- A. I believe so but I have not seen one.

Q. Do you think it is desirable to employ Chinamen on the public

works of the Dominion ?- A. I believe it is very undesirable and I think it will be a great misfortune if they are employed on the Canadian Pacific Railway. If they are employed on that work after the road is built they will have a large percentage of the money expended in the construction of that road; they will leave the country and the country will be poorer by the amont of money they take out of it; where if white laborers are employed they will settle down and make homes for themselves in the country, and in a very short time be the means of yielding a considerable revenue to the country.

Q. Do you think it would be desirable to allow Chinese to purchase Dominion Lands. Dominion Lands ?-- A. No, I would be decidedly against it.

Q. Or lease ?-- A. No neither to purchase nor lease.

Q. Do you think it would be desirable to allow Chinese to take up Fishing. fishing stations ?- A. No, I would regret very much to see that. By the last mail I received a petition from the canning proprietors in my district and they complain now that they have to compete with the Japanese in the salmon canning business, and I have no doubt that the Chinese will be into it in a very short time, and they are afraid it will be impossible for them to compete with the Chinese.

Q. Do you think there could be an introduction of white immigrants who would settle along the banks of the Fraser River and utilize the land, and at the same time employ themselves in the fisheries during the fishing season ?- A. Yes. The Chinese are very apt and handy, and the canning Canning propri- proprietors out there prefer them to any other class for making tins and etors prefer Chinese. for any light work. But for heavy manual labor, for instance, as farming Not employed. as hands, they are not employed in my district but to very limited extent. farming hands. If employers can get white labor, they employ it in preference to the Chi- White labor nese labor, considerably cheaper. prefered.

Q. Have you any Chinese engaged in cultivating gardens ?- A. We Vegetable gar- have quite a number. deners.

Q. Will you state the effect of their competition with white settlers ? -A. Well nearly all of the white gardeners have given up their occupa- tion altogether.

Q. They furnish vegetables much cheaper than white gardeners ?- A. Yes, much cheaper.

Q. They have driven the white gardeners out of the business ?- A. Yes.

SENATOR MACDONALD, says :

Q. Will you state to the Committee your opinion as to the moral char- Not more immoral acter of the Chinese who come to the Province of British Columbia ?- than other general laboring classes. ʻ From personal experience, I cannot say anything on that subject, but judging from the police reports, I do not think that they are any more immoral than is the general class of laboring people in any country.

Q. On moral grounds, then, you would not be in favor of prohibiting the immigration of these people into this country ? A. I do not think

Not worse than other nationali- ties.

that I would. I would, however, prohibit all immorality. I do not think that they are worse than the laboring classes of other nationalities in other countries. They gamble, and have women of ill-fame, and all that sort of thing, the same as white people have.

Q. What does it cost a white man to live in the province of Columbia ? -- A. It costs them about fifty cents a day.

Q. Do you think that it costs a Chinese laborer fifty cents a day to live ?- A. No ; I do not think that it would cost them so much. I think that to live would cost them about half that sum per day ; I fancy that this would be the case. I could not state positively the cost, but I think that a Chinaman could live on half of that sum per day.

Q. Are you aware what amount Chinaman earn annually ?- A. No; I could not say ; Chinamen work in houses. They perform domestic ser- vices, and for doing that sort of work they get from $20 to $30 and $35 a month in wages.

Q. And their board ? A. Yes ; these men, I suppose, save nearly all their pay, and they make about $300 a year- more or less.

Q. If the Chinese are not discouraged, what will be the probable result of the increased number of Chinamen in regard to white labor ?- A. I think that as they are driven out of the State of California their numbers in the Province of British Columbia would increase and this increase in their numberswould be undoubtedly detrimental to white labor.

Q. Would they increase in greater ratio than would white men do you think ?- A. Yes, they have more facilities for doing so than have white men. A ship comes from China to our Province, in five and thirty days, and the rates of freight are low, the passage money for Chinamen is very low. Passages for Chinamen are obtained at a very low rate.

Q. Could you offer to the committee any suggestions as to the best means of discouraging Chinese immigration other than their non-employ- ment on public works in the Dominion ? A. Well, I do not approve of the bill which was passed with regard to the Chinese population by the Local Assembly of the Province of British Columbia. I think that the Assembly has gone too far in this relation. I do not approve of that measure at all.

Q. Do you think that it is desirable to prohibit the Chinese from buying Dominion lands ?- A. Well, I do not know whether it is desirable or not .. I think that in a new country where there is lots of room, it might not be injurious were they allowed to occupy wild land. Were this the case, it might add to the productions of the country.

Q. Have they not almost driven the white gardeners and marketmen out of the market ? A. Well, I suppose that they have done so. Their prices are low, and white labor is very high, and Chinamen will be apt to come in and work under them. Certainly, the Chinese by entering into this business have cut down prices.

Q. What is the feeling that exists among the gardeners and farmers with respect to the competition which prevails among the Chinese them- selves ?- A. I do not think that market gardeners' wages two years ago were more than $3 a day.

Q . But what is the feeling of that class with respect to competition Feeling hostile on with Chinese labor in regard to their productions ?- A. Well, the feeling, petition. account of com- of course, is very strong against the Chinaman-the same as would natu- rally be the case in connection with any competition. Even among white people similar results would follow, under like circumstances, with regard to manufactures or commerce, or any other line of business. There is no question that white labor cannot compete with Chinese labor in the scale of economy. The white people cannot live as cheap as the Chinese, or White labor can- work at such a low rate of wages. not compete with Chinese labor.

. Could you point out any permanent advantage that would result Chinese labor from the retention of Chinese labor in the country ?- A. I think that useful to the country. Chinese labor is useful to a certain extent. It is useful in opening man- ufactures, and in opening any new work ; in clearing land for instance. They are as useful as the Indians used to be in former years, before the Chinese came into this country. At that time, we employed Indians in clearing land at a cheap rate of wages, and Chinamen would be useful in the same way. Probably the Chinese could be utilized in starting boot and shoe factories and tailor shops on a large scale, and in the making of shirts and clothing. They could be made useful in many cases of that kind.

Q. Does not the presence of Chinese labor interfere with the employ- Few women. ment of young men and women ?A. Well, in our country we have very few women. That is one of the evils that we have to contend with. If we had the number of women which they have in this part of the country, they would do all that kind of light work, and then, of course, I would be in favor of doing away with Chinese labor altogether.

Q. How could you expect young men and young women to go to the Price of white Province of British Columbia and to remain there, if they are brought labor most come down to eaable into competition with Chinese labor at such a low rate of wages, as to us to carry on any prevent them earning the means of living ?- A. Well, white labor must fully. works success- come down in price. That is a matter at any rate which must be brought about. It is impossible to carry on any kind of work, either in connection with farming or with manufacturing at the present rate of wages, in our Province. The price of white labor must come down, in order to enable us to carry on any works successfully. On the whole, I must say that I am opposed to Chinese immigration, and I would like to see measures adopted which would prevent any more Chinaman coming into our country.

. Is there any further statement you would like to make to the com- Limited number mittee on this subject ? A. No ; I would only say that a certain limited number of Chinamen have been useful to the Province of British Columbia creased. -- the presence of a limited number has been really useful, in my opinion ; but I would not like to see that number augmented in any way, I would rather see it diminished, in justice to our population of boys and girls who are growing up.

Q. Mr. Macdonald, you speak of the difference between the price of Reasons for high white labor and of Chinese labor ; will you explain to the committee the price of white labor in British reason why such a high price is demanded for white labor ? A. In the Columbia. Province of British Columbia.

Q. Yes .- A. Well, the people who came to the Province of British Co- lumbia some years ago in the year 1858, brought with them old California

useful to Province not to be in-

ideas to a great extent ; nearly every body came then. They came from California when money was plentiful and labor was scarce, and they have stuck to these ideas up to the present time to a great extent. They have stuck to the old California ideas, and labor is scarce in our country.

Won't take less. Q. Is there any permanent industry in the Province which keeps us the price of labor ; what keeps the price up ?- A. No; they prefer to be idle unless they are starving, rather than take less than the sum of $2 a day.

Successful mining a case.

Q. Have the gold mines of British Columbia anything to do with this high price of labor in the province ?- A. Oh ! yes ; a good deal. They have a good deal to do with it. These people work in those mines for three or four months in the year, and they may make more in this way than by ordinary labor ; they may thus make more than a years wages in a few months.

ploy Chinese labor.

When laboring men become small contractors, they Q. Do the employers of labor show a preference to employing Chinese instead of whites, and when they are employed do they work well ?--- A. I are the firts to em- notice that laboring men when they become small contractors, are the very first people to employ Chinese labor. They employ Chinamen to mix mortar, and to carry brick and stone, and in the erection of building, masons and small contractors employ them. The whole Chinese labor question is a very conflicting one and very difficult to decide ; where labor is cheap, advantage will be taken of the circumstanee, no matter by whom it is furnished, whether by black or by white-no matter what the color of the employees may be.

Chief objection work for less wages.

Q. Does the chief objection to the presence of Chinamen in the Prov- ince arise from the fact that they will labor for a smaller sum then white laborers are willing to work for ?- A. Yes ; that is one objection to their presence in the Province.

Morals not worse than other classes.

Q. The objection to their presence is not on account of their morals or anything of that kind ?- A. Of course, their morals are not much worse than the morals of other classes.

Mr. Barnard, says :

Objection among laboring class strong.

Q. What is the general objection of the people of British Columbia on this point, as to the desirability, if possible, of preventing Chinese immi- gration into the Province ?- A. Among the laboring class, the feeling is very strong against them but among those who employ Chinese domestic servante it is not so strong. The Chinese are very useful and employers cannot replace them, as things are now with other labor.

At present em- ployers cannot replace.

Would do so if could. Q. If employers could replace them with white labor, male or female, or both, at a reasonable rate, do you think that they would do so ?- A. Yes ; and I suppose that in time the Chinese could be replaced, but it would be very difficult at the present time to keep females in British Columbia. The moment they arrive in the Province they get married, leave the Females not avail- Province or do something else, and they are not available for domestic service.

able for domestic service.

Chinese domestic service-

Q. You find that Chinamen are more docile and tractable than are white servants ?- A. Yes ; and they would do more work than white women will do ; they would cut firewood and do other work where white women will only do one branch. Some years ago we employed a number of

English servants who came out of England. The people in the Province contributed towards their passage money and paid so much down. The girls came out, but not one remained one year in employment ; some got married and some went to the dogs. But that will all be cured as we get more immigration into the country, and a larger population of women. English girls. There are a great many men in the Province who would like to get married.

Q. As a general rule, the Chinese do not settle down into the country ? Leasing lands. -A. They lease lands and become market gardeners.

Q. They make all they can in the country and then leave it ?- A. Yes As to leaving the anybody would do that if they could. country.

Q, I mean that they make all they can and then leave for their own country ?- A. This is not always the case ; of course, they want to get good land. They will work a piece of land for a certain number of years, and if they can obtain a better piece they are anxious and willing to leave the old one and better their agricultural position.

Q. Are they engaged to any extent in agriculture ?- A. Not very exten- Not engaged in sively. agriculture.

Q. What is the general character of the male population ?- A. They are Male population most industrious and an example to any laboring classes in the world. frugal and indus- They are very frugal and industrious. trious.

Q. Are their females more debauched than those of the rest of the White women and community ?- A. Are they more debauched than other classes, as a rule ? ebually bad. Chinese women -- I think white women are just as bad as Chinese women.

Q. Do you think the country loses by allowing the Chinese to follow Chinese control the white miner into the mines, and taking out the gold ?- A. No, if they can be confined to that class of work, it would not be injurious, but it would be rather to our advantge. As I understand the matter the Chi- nese to-day control the labor market of the Province of British Columbia, and they will control the labor market of any country into which they penetrate. They do not go about individually seeking work, but remain quiet in large bands ; they are controlled by the agent of companies which exist in China. These companies, which are wealthy, send these men out at their own (the companies) expense and the men have to serve the companies for a term of years, as I understand it. If you require 1,000 Chinamen to perform a particular work, you do not apply to individual Chinamen, or insert an advertisement in the newspapers in order to attract men from all sections of the country, but you go to one of these Chinese companies, and make arrangements with them. You have to agree to certain terms ; you have to make a full agreement with them, and you never see the men until they are sent on by the company to pro- ceed to work. A foreman is sent with them, and to this foreman you have to apply in case any difficulty arises. If you notice any Chinamen who is not doing his duty you go at once to the foreman and he arranges the matter ; the individual has nothing to do with it. The result of this class of labor is this : If this thing is permitted to continue in the coun- try, the Chinese will completely control the labor market. If this thing is permitted to go on I take it that one day the Chinese will control the labor market everywhere in the world.

the labor market ..

Q. How do these companies control the men after the latter reach the Province of British Columbia and are on British soil ?- A. It is a little difficult to ascertain how they do it; they have a faculty of keeping things to themselves.

Objectionable, no amalgamation &c.

Q, In what respect do you consider the presence of the Chinese in the Province of British Columbia is a nuisance, Mr. Barnard ?- A. They are a class of people with whom we cannot associate ; we cannot amalgamate with them. They are a class of people that have no interest in common with us, and while they earn your money and are supported by your enterprise and industry, they take no part whatever in your political advancement, or in your social or moral condition. They are aside alto- gether from us-just as much as a steam-engine is aside from a human being.

In their labor they give a fair equi- valent.

Q. But, do they render a fair equivalent for the wages which they re- ceive from their employers, in the labor that they perform ?- A. Yes, they do.

Sober, industrious end cleanly.

Q. Are the Chinese, as laborers, docile and industrious ?- A. They are sober and industrious, and cleanly in their habits.

Q. How is it with them with regard to drinking sprees and breaches of the peace ?- A. The Chinese are a sober class of people.

Q. They seldom commit breaches of the peace !- A. They are conside- rably addicted to petty larceny.

Q. Are they addicted to petty larceny among themselves ?- A. Oh, yes, and also with respect to others.

Q. You spoke of the introduction of machinery into China, and of the consequences which might flow from the Chinese offering goods very cheaply, and you said we might require greater protection against them than against the Americans. What connection do you think that this has with the question of Chinese immigratian into British Columbia ?- A. The question is that they are going to control the labor market wherever they settle down, and if this sort of thing is allowed to go on, they will even- tually control the labor market of the world.

Q. Do you imagine that there is imminent danger of that. Do you think that there is imminent danger of their supplanting the English and Americans as a manufacturing nation ?- A. I cannot very easily under- stand how, if Chinamen can live for two cents a day as they can at home under such circumstances, any other result can follow. If in China, they are going to produce, say cotton for instance, at a much lower price than where other labor is employed and where a much higher rate of wages is paid-as must be paid to enable Europeans to live-it is plain that they will have an immense advantage over us.

Q. Would it be advisable to prevent the Chinese from working in the gold mines of British Columbia, and to keep these mines until white-labor was supplied from the lower Provinces-until white men came in from the other Provinces,-took up the mines and worked them ?- A. I am not in favor of adopting any such measures while the Chinese are amongst us. Once they are amongst us they should be entitled to enjoy the same rights and privileges which all other settlers should have. I do not believe in

passing laws which should prohibit them from doing anything which any Should be pre- other person in the Province of British Columbia can do, though I should coming. vented from

like to see them prevented from coming into the Province altogether.

Q. Do you know of any Chinamen taking up land and working it in the Take up lands. Province ?- A. Yes, there are a few of them that have done so. A few of them have done so in almost every district.

Q. They cultivate small patches of ground ; do they not ?- A. They White men would take up patches of ground, which white men would not think of touching not touch. for the purpose of taking a crop off from it, and take crops from them.

Q. Do they interfere with the operations of ordinary market gardeners Intererfence with (white) in forcing down prices ?- A. They do so when they are in the marketgardeners. vicinity of cities. -

To get a correct idea of the value of labor, you have to set down the Best pick and different kinds of work. For instance at the lumbering camps, except as shovel. cooks, there are no Chinamen employed. There are no Chinamen who are any good with the axe, and they do not interfere with the white-labor in that respect, so that the white men get better wages there.

The labor that Chinamen are best adapted for is that with the pick and shovel. I believe he can very nearly equal the white man with the pick and shovel.

Q. Do you think it would be desirable to allow Chinese to take up Take up Public public lands ! A. As I said before, if you admit them to the country lands. admit them to all the privileges of the country.

Q. Is it desirable that they should be permanent settlers ?-- A. I do not know why they should not have all the privileges of citizenship once they are here, but as permanent settlers, we do not need them ; we want a better class of people than they are.

Q. What is the general feeling -not among the laboring classes only- but among the whole white population of British Columbia regarding the Chinese question ?- A. I think the general feeling is, that the . Province would be a great deal better off without them.

General feeling in Province against.

Q. Is that the feeling among manufacturers and mill owners ?- A. No, Not among manu- the manufacturers prefer them to other laborers because they are good Blue Mondays. facturers. laborers-steady, regular and methodical and they have no blue Mondays, in fact they have no difficulty with them as they have with white laborers.

Q. In fact, they are a valuable class of laborers, so far as employers of Machinery. labor are concerned ?- A. Yes, as good as any other class of machinery you can get.

Q. Are they employed to a great extent as farmers ?- A. They are Cooks. generally cooks.

Q. You do not know what kind of laborers they make on farms ?- A. Not good on farms. They do not come up to the ordinary agriculturists. They do not get the wages of ordinary agriculturists.

Q. Is there not a scarcity of labor in British Columbia ; have you not Objections. a sufficiencey of employment for both Chinese and whites-for all who apply for it in the Province ?- A. There are not many idle men in

3

British Columbia and were there fewer Chinese there would be more whites. But there is very little inducement for a white man to go to British Columbia and take his family with him and turn his girls out to- compete with Chinamen in household work : and if he has any respect for himself, he will hardly go and work alongside of a Chinamnan. Therefore, to a great extent, he is excluded : and he, in is turn, writes to others who may wish to settle in the country, and tells them if they come there they may expect to compete with Chinamen in every branch of labor they may undertake, and the consequence is that we cannot get white population ; we cannot encourage it. I have been asked, hundreds of times since I came to Canada, with reference to that, and I cannot encourage people to go out there under the circumstances.

Q. Do you think it is owing to that, or is it not attributable to the remoteness of that Province, and the expense of getting there compared with going to eligible positions in Manitoba ?-- A. The expense of getting there is of course against us, but that objection would be very easily overcome, if the people were satisfied that the country was worth going to. $50 or $60 would take a laboring man there-$10 steerage from San Francisco to Victoria, and $40 or $50 to San Francisco.

Q. Then he has to pay for his living besides ?-- A. Well, it is very cheap ; he could take a basket of provisions with him.

Q. I thought the lowest rate you could get there for was $70 ?- A. No ; as I said before, these 6,000 Chinamen in British Columbia take the place of two or three thousand families.

Q. While you are paying white laborers high wages, S60 or $70 a month, I think ?- A. Understand that is mostly for skilled axe-men who are used to felling large trees-they get $75 a month. The wages of good farm hands -and this would be a pretty fair criterion -- are about $45 a month.

Q. That is over 100 per cent. of what we give here for the best men ? A. Yes.

Q. What is the class who are generally known as the white laboring class in British Columbia ; I did not get the point quite explained ?- A. The idea is this ; the class of men who go to settle up gold countries are generally more intelligent than ordinary laborers, as we understand labo- rers in Canada. They are generally a more intelligent and pushing class who come out there. The white laboring class now in Victoria, for ins- tance, is composed of those men who have come to the mines, who have been mining for a number of years and have been unsuccessful, and they have to fall back into the ranks of the laborers. These men very often are strong, and they would rather starve than go to work alongside of a Chi- naman.

Their labor only temporary. Q. Do these men intend to remain as laborers, or do they resort to those occupations only temporarily ?- A. It is a temporary thing, if they strike new diggings and can get along better in them, they propose to do so. I do not think we have any of the ordinary white laborers ; the men who will work anywhere and everywhere and on any work you put them No ordinary white at. The laboring classes of Victoria are composed of men who are labo- rers of necessity.

Q. In that case would not the Chinese be indispensable, in case of White labor on geeat public works being undertaken in British Columbia ?- A. Just as Public Work. soon as it is announced that public works are to be commenced in Bri- tish Columbia we will have all the white labor we require, and we should have a larger proportion than we have if we knew that the Chi- nese were not to be employed on the works.

Q. How do the Chinese go to the mines ; on foot ?- A. The cheapest Chinese too smart. way they can. The fact is, gentlemen, the Chinese are too smart for us. They will beat us everywhere they get a foothold.

Q. That is the greatest objection to them on the part of the white Greatest objec -- population ?A I think it is. tion.

Q. How does the ordinary Chinese laborer compare in point of intelli- Lower in intelli- gence with the ordinary white laborer of this country ?-- A. Well, I think genee. he is a grade lower.

Q. You think that this labor is a little lower ?- I think that it is a Reasons. good deal lower. You cannot get any class of white laborers that I know of -that will for the sake of economy, pack themselves to the extent, say of twenty persons in a room, ten by twelve, and sleeping three in a bed, there being three tiers of beds one on top of the other, and all the house- hold furniture in the house wherein 20 laborers live not being worth more than the sum of $2.50.

Q. What is the general health of these people, under such circums- Their health, be- tances as you have mentioned ?- A. Their health is good for the reason cause cleanly. that they are very cleanly. They wash themselves very regularly. They could not live as closely as they do, in the hovels in which they dwell were it otherwise. That would be out of the question.

Q. Do they ventilate their hovels properly ? Do they let in the fresh Impression of air ?- A. The impression of a white person, on going into one of the totheirresidences .. white persons as houses which they occupy, is at first against them ; but that is the pecu- liar odorous result of the stuff which they eat ; it does not arise from uncleanly habits or from effluvia coming from their bodies, but the odor which is perceived, arises from the stuff which they eat. This odor is besides mixed with the smell of tobacco and their tobacco is saturated with a little opium ; and the smell of opium and tobacco and food altogether, gives rise to the unfavorable impression to which I allude. Contrast of white. There is another disadvantage to which their presence in our country gives rise to. Say that you are a property holder and have a house to let ; if we had 6,000 white laborers in the country you would derive a certain amount of rental from your property which in the aggregate And Chinese would make it something worth while, but it is not so in the case of Chi- rentals. namen : they will rent a house standing on a piece of land, and they are no sooner in possession of the dwelling, than they put up wings on each side sufficient to keep out the wind and sun, and place people in all the additional accomodations ; but they are not satisfied with that, if the land is at all valuable, they will scoop it out and excavate cellars and place people in these quarters ; then they will raise the roof and provide a room in the garret, where they live closer than rats in a nest.

Q. And they also put their hogs and chickens in the house ; do they not ? A. I never saw them keep their hogs in the house.

Hogs and chickens,

Cleanly people. Q. They keep their chickens in the house, however do they not ?- - A. They put their chickens in the house in case a cold night comes on, but not their hogs. I rather think they are a cleanly people, on the whole they are much more cleanly than the ordinary white laboring classes would be under similar circumstances.

Domestic service. Q. Do you employ any Chinese, Mr, Barnard ?- A. The only China- man whom I employ is a household servant.

Not stage drivers. Q. You do not make use of them as stage drivers ?- A. No ; the Chi- nese are of very liltle service about horses-they have not the nerve.

Domestic service. Q. Are you aware whether the Chinamen who are employed as domes- tic servants sleep in the houses of dwellings where they are employed as domestic servants, or not ?- A. Oh, yes ; they sleep in the houses where they are employed. We have always made it a rule to require the Chinese who are employed about the house to remain in the house during sleeping hours. I have had a Chinese servant in my employ for three years. This is the second Chinaman whom I have had for a similar period, and I have never had more satisfaction out of a domestic servant in my life than I have had out of these men.

Q. The Chinese are cleanly ?- A. The room of this man is a picture of neatness, and he changes his socks every day ; as far as he is personally concerned, he is extremely clean.

Q. He is a good cook ?- A. Yes.

Their organization Q. The Chinese do washing and laundry work ?- A. Yes ; in order to as to employment. give you a good idea of the organization which exists among them with regard to the employments that they follow, I will relate a circums- tance that has come under my notice. A gentleman who had been un- fortunate in obtaining white household servants, applied for a Chinaman to serve him in that capacity. The Chinaman in charge, to whom he made his application, immediately turned over his books, and said to the gen- tleman : " Your name is- ___? "_" Yes." " And you live at such a place ?"-" Yes ; I do." " You give too many dinners ; you have a lot of men coming to see you every Sunday ; you give a big dinner every Sunday ?"-" Yes." "Mrs .- -has three children ?" -- " Yes." In fact, the gentleman found this Chinaman had in his books a complete register of the whole of his family affairs, and at the end of the register, was set down the price which he was required to pay in order to secure services of a Chinaman. He also found that he could not get a Chinaman for anything less, and on making enquiries he discovered that they had a correct record, not of the standing of the servant who was to be em- ployed, but of the standing of the masters who were to employ these men as servants.

MR. DEWDNEY says :

'Chinese Immigra- tion might be overdone.

Q. Do you think, in your experience with, and knowledge of the Chi- nese, that they are such a class of immigrants as it is desirable on the part of, and in the interest of the Dominion, to encourage to come to the country ?- A. I think that there may be too many of them in the Prov- ince of British Columbia. It is possible that there are too many ; Chinese immigration might be overdone.

Q. Is Chinese immigration at the present time overdone in the Prov- Not so at present. ince of British Colombia ?- A. I think not.

Q- Have you any authentic information with respect to the number of Dont know Chinese who are in the country : have you any reliable information number. on this subject ?- A. No; and I think there is none to be had.

Q. The only way, in all probabillty, of finding out the number of Chi- By the Chairman namen in the Province of British Columbia, and the industries in which M. de Cosemos. they are engaged, is to apply to the representatives of the different Mode of obtaining Chinese companies who do business in British Columbia and obtain it information, from them. In the report of the Senate of the United States or of Cali- fornia, they appointed a sub-committee which waited on the representa- tives of the Chinese companies, who gave the Committee as accurate returns on this subject as their registers would afford, as to the number of Chinamen in the country, and I presume that this is the only way, as long as we are without official government sources of information, in which this information could be obtained ? A. You could get it approx- imately.

Q. You think that the Chinese are a desirable class of people to have Chinese not desir- around you ?-- A. I do not think that they are a desirable class to have able but useful. amongst us, but they are very useful. I think that it would be a very bad thing for us if we were without thein at the present time in the Pro- vince of British Columbia.

Q. If the Chinese charged the same rate for their labor as the whites Chinese preferable do, would they get work in the Province ?- A. Well, some of them would as servants not as laborers. get work, I think, under such circumstances. I believe that a great many people would prefer them for certain employments. For instance, they would prefer to have Chinese servants instead of white servants, but I do not think they would prefer to employ Chinese over whites, as ordinary laborers.

Q. The Chinese are more adapted for domestic purposes and for house work than for other employments ?- A. Some of them who are trained to that particular employment are so ; they make very good servants ; but a great number of them are not fitted for house work at all ; they are very good laborers ; they work very well on roads and on public works. As laborers.

Q. Is there a better class than the Chinese ?-- A. The Indians.

Q. Are the Indians a better class than the Chinese ?--- A. I do not Indian servants. think that they are better, though very good servants are very often ob- tained from among the Indians.

Q, Are the Indians equal to the Chinese ? A. They are not equal to the Chinese as domestic servants, but for some kinds of work they are better than Chinamen.

Q. Has not the new industry in British Columbia-I refer to the can- Canning industry ning industry-caused a great number of Chinamen to come into the could not be car- ried on without Province ?-- A. A great many of them came into the Province owing to them, the opening up of that industry, but a great many also went out again, I think that pretty nearly the whole of them that came into the Province in connection with the prosecution of this industry, went out again as far

as I can learn. I know that they were very useful in this relation. That industry could not have been carried on without them.

Q. Are the Chinese cleanly in their habits ?- A. Yes, they are cleanly, though they live packed very closely together ; a great number of them will live in a very small house.

Q. If they are packed very thickly in their dwellings they cannot be very cleanly in their habits ? A. Yes, they are cleaner than the same number of white men would be if the latter occupied the same space ; but, at any rate, that is a matter which can always be regulated by the muni- cipality affected. They have always boards of health, whose duty it is to look into these questions and regulate them. But as a general thing, the people who own Chinese quarters, are very anxious to get as many of them as possible into these quarters, as they then get a good deal more rent for their properties.

Q. Do the Chinese adapt themselves to business like other classes of the community. That is, do they become agriculturists, mechanics and manu- facturers ?- A. Yes ; they work in the manufactories. They are employed in making cigars and boots.

Q. They have very few families in the country ? A. I think that good respectable Chinese women would come to this country, but the idea amongst them is that if they came they would be persecuted. I know of several respectable Chinese women in the city of San Francisco ; several Chinamen there have their wives who are very respectable women.

Q. Do the Chinese become interested like other classes of the commu- nity in the development of the resources of the country ; do they become interested in our public institutions,-in our educational system for instance-or in anything of that nature ?-. A. I do not know whether any Chinese children come to our schools or not, but I know that young Chinese are sent to the schools in the State of California. I also know that the Chinese are very anxious to learn to read and write and all that sort of thing.

Q. Do you think that the Chinese in this country are solely desirous of making a few hundred dollars, and of leaving the country with it ulti- mately ; is that their main object ? A. I do not think that such is the main object of the whole of them : I think that large bodies of them who come to our country are satisfied if they can make enough to go back on ; I know Chinamen who have worked in this country for some three or four years, who have wives and children in China, and they are very glad of the opportunity of going back to their homes with a little money.

Q, None of the Chinese go to farming to any extent ?- A. No not 10 any very large extent. I know some Chinese who own pretty large farms on the Fraser river.

Q. Do they raise cattle ?- A. They raise cattle and grain. They raise a good deal of grain, and they have large market gardens.

Q. What is the general feeling in British Columbia with respect to the presence of the Chinese in the country ? A. I think that the general feeling among the people who live in the Province is adverse to see them driven out of the country.

Q. You think that the white people who reside there would not like to see them driven out of the country ?- A. Yes, I think so. That is the case in my opinion.

Q. What is the feeling among the laboring population in British Co- Feeling of labor- lumbia with respect to the Chinese ?- A. I think that it is very likely Chinese. ing men against that the feeling among the laboring men is against Chinamen. I think that this would be very natural, and probably is the case.

Q. The feeling there is against them ?- A. Yes, so also is the feeling Politicians. of some politicians.

Q. Do you know any politicians in British Columbia who are favorable to the immigration of the Chinese into this country ?-- A. Well, I do not know about that.

Q. Are any politicians in the Province favorable to Chinese immigra- tion ?- A. I do not know that they are favorable to Chinese immigration on a large scale ; but I do not think that they would object to seeing the same proportion of Chinamen in the country at any time to the white population that exists in the Province of British Columbia at the present time. I do not think that they would object to the continuation of the present state of things in this respect.

Q. Is the proportion of the Chinese one-quarter of the proportion of the Proportion. Province ?- A. No, it is not one-quarter.

Q. You say there are a few Chinamen in the Province who farm to some Farming. extent ?- A. Yes, I do.

Q. What number of acres of land would they have under cultivation ?

-A. I know Chinamen who own farms of 160 acres, and of 200 acres.

Q. Have they all the appliances for farming like white people ?- A. I do not know whether they use as much machinery as the white farmers do or not ; in fact, I do not think that they do so, but they cultivate their land in the same manner.

Q. Are we to understand that these farms of 160 and of 200 acres are wholly under cultivation ?- A. The bulk of their land is under cultiva- tion.

Q. What is the ordinary rate of wages that is paid to the Chinese Wages. laborer in the Province of British Columbia per month ?- A. Well, to what class of labor do you refer ?

Q. There is the laborer, and the mechanic and the trader, but the white laborer I suppose is not expected to be a skilled mechanic,-the laborer who uses the pick and shovel ?- A. I paid the sum of from $30 to $40 a month to Chinamen working on the roads.

Q. Was this latterly ?- A. No it was ten years ago.

Q. What is the rate which is now paid to Chinamen ?- A. I do not know at what rate you could engage a body of Chinamen for, at the present time ; it depends on the size of the work. If you wanted to

engage a large number of men, I should say that you could get them for the rate of from $15 to $20 a month.

Q. And board ?- A. Yes, Chinese cook., get from $15, up to as high as $50 a month.

Q. How do these rates compare with white labor ?... A. Some white cooks get as high as $100 a month ; but there are very few white cooks.

Q. Speaking of laborers what would the same class of laborers among the white people ask as wages per day and per month ?- A. Whites would ask as the price of their labor $40 a month.

Q, There is only $10 difference between the rates of wages paid to whites and to the Chinese ?- A. That is not the case between the labor I speak of, I refer to labor employed in making roads and in constructing public works. You would have to pay, I think, from $15 to $20 a month if you engaged a large number of Chinese, while white men would get $40 a month. I think that this is about the ordinary price of white, labor.

Q. What wages do farmers pay to their farm hands in the Province of British Columbia ?- A. I have known farmers who pay their hands from $50 to $60 and $70 a month. I have known them to pay Indians as much as $3 a day during the harvest season.

Q. Is this lately ?-- A. Yes it was the case some two or three years ago.

.

Q. Do you know any of them who bring money into the country, that is are there any men of means among them ? A. The merchants bring money with them, I believe ; many of them. Some of the ordinary class of Chinamen may bring a little money with them when they come from California ; they certainly bring none from China-the bulk of them. Some of the merchants are very wealthy.

Q. What do they do with their money when they make it in British Columbia ? Do they keep it in the country ?- A. If the Chinamen are doing well at the mines, where many of them go, they live very well and spend their money in the country. If they are doing well, they live very well. If not, they live poorly on almost nothing. But if a Chinaman is. making money, he lives very nearly as well as a white man.

Q. And then, as a rule, they spend all their money in the country ?- A. No ; I do not think that. A Chinaman may be doing very well, and at the same time may be saving money to go home on.

Q. Do they use the same articles in their daily food as white men ; that is, articles liable to duty ?-- A. Oh yes ; a great number of them.

Q. Tea ?- A. Yes ; tea, sugar, rice, boots, clothing, etc.

Q. And if they are doing well, I understand, they live well ?- A. They live very well particularly if they can get pigs and chickens.

Q. In the event of large public works being carried on here in a year or two, and a large number of mnen being required, do you suppose it

would be an attraction to the Chinese population to come in from Cali- fornia in greater numbers than whites from other points ?- A. I think it would ; I think there would be an inducement, and unless Chinese immi- gration were restricted, contractors would look for that kind of labor, because on that western coast it is a desirable class of labor ;- in a country where there are mining operations starting up in every direction. You cannot depend on the white labor ; they run off to the mines and leave be depended on. the employer in the lurch, and the only labor they can depend upon is the Chinese labor.

In mining country white labor not to.

Q. Would the employment of this labor be prejudicial to the settlement Such labor not of the country ?- A. I do not think it would ; I think if public works settlement of prejudicial to were going on to an extent to employ two or three thousand Chinamen at country. work of such a character that white men are not better capable of doing, there would still be a sufficient amount of work for all the white laborers that might be wanted.

Q. Do they employ Chinese as servants ?- A. Yes. Chinese servants.

Q. Judges also ?- Yes, almost all the respectable people in Victoria Judges. employ Chinese servants.

Q. What is the reason they employ the Chinese ?- A. Because they Better servants. find they make better servants than the white people. than whites.

Q. It is not because of an absence of female and male white domestics ? Chinese strike. A. Well I think not, to a certain extent. Once, at the time that the arbitrary Act was passed by the Local Government, which was disallowed by Judge Gray, all the Chinese servants struck in Victoria. There was not one who did not leave his employment, and they were away long enough for the parties who employed them to send to California for other servants ; and the report of this complication on reaching San Francisco, induced a lot of people to come up there and offer themselves, but they were not engaged, and as soon as the case was decided by Judge Gray, they all returned to their employment, and there were very few who did not take them back again.

Q. Did the employers of the Chinese as household servants treat them Treatment. well ?- A. I think they treated them very well.

Q. Were the Chinamen well pleased with their wages and treatment ? A. I think so.

Q. You say the Local Government passed an Act levying a labor tax Local aet. on the Chinese ? A. Yes ; they levied a kind of tax.

Q. Will you state to the Committee whether you think the Chinese Gratitude or showed gratitude or ingratitude towards their employers on leaving so ingratitude. suddenly and without notice ?- A. Well, I think that they certainly showed that they believed they were being imposed on.

Q. Do you think that an Act of a Legislature imposing a high tax on Witness opinion .. Chinamen is a sufficient cause for Chinese domestic servants to leave their employers and put them to serious inconvenience ?- A. An arbitrary tax like that-I think so. I think it is a very natural way for the Chinese to fight their battle. I am not sure it was not done from ins- On the strike. tructions received from the Chinise Minister in London.

Q. If the Provincial Government imposed a tax that was considered too high upon the white population, do you think the white population would leave their employment simply because the Government imposed such a tax ? A. It depends on how high it was. If it is in the same proportion as the tax on the Chinamen, I think they would leave very quickly.

G You think they would leave good employment ?- A. I think they would if the tax was as heavy as that one was. I have seen men strike for much less cause than that.

Q. You think then that the Chinese, when they struck and left families destitute of household servants, did right. Is that what the Committee are to understand ? A. I think that they did what white people would have done in the same position.

Q. Do the Chinese learn the English language ?- A. Oh yes, many of them do.

Q. Probably that may be the reason you have to go the head men to make bargains ?- A. It has always been more convenient. My idea is that they bring Chinamen out after collecting a number of them and pay their passage to America. In that way the Chinamen are always indebted to these men, and they have to work until they get out of their debt. I do not know that they are regular slaves-I do not think they are.

Q. Is there employment for white labor to any extent now in British Columbia !- A. Not very much I think.

Q. Do white people leave in case they cannot find employment ? A. Yes : there are some leaving every year.

Q. If these 6,000 Chinamen were not there, they would be able to get it ? - A. These 6,000 Chinamen are not working as laborers ; over three- fourths of them are mining on their own account at places where white people would not work.

I think the reason respectable women do not emigrate more is that they are afraid of persecution.

SENATOR CORNWALL, says :

Q. As to the males, are they honest ?- A. As far as my experience goes they are, at least, as honest as other classes of people.

Q. Do you think it would be in the public interest to prohibit them from settling in the Dominion ?- A. No, I do not ; not to prohibit them from coming into the Dominion.

Q. You think they ought to be allowed to settle in the Dominion as permanent settlers ? A. I should not object to their coming in, but I should object to their holding land in fee simple.

Q. Why ? A. Because I do not think that a people who will not perfectly assimilate with a western population ought to be allowed as settlers on land-as permanent residents of the country : to own lands on equal terms with people of other nationalities.

Q. Supposing they were colonized altogether, would they not be a use- Industrious. ful class of citizens, and contribute to the revenue of the country as well as other citizens ? A. Yes, to a very large extent : they are most industrious.

Q. Are they cleanly in their habits ?- A. As far as my knowlege goes, Cleanly. they are particularly cleanly in their habits.

Q. Do they make good servants ?- A. Excellent servants. Servants.

Q. Do they mingle with the rest of the community in public enter- Payment of taxes. prises, and assist in permanently developing the country ; that is, in con- tributing their fair proportion of the taxes ?- A. I have heard that there is some difficulty in collecting taxes from them, but I have never known them to refuse to pay a tax that they were called upon to pay.

Q. Well, what is the objection to them over other citizens-do they Wagss. work cheaper ?- A. Very little, if at all. The proof of that is the rate of wages which they receive-which they always command.

Q. Why don't you employ Chinese labor ? A. Because I find I can Prefer white men. get white men for ordinary labor at the same rate of wages as Chinamen, and would rather have white men.

Q. And when you cannot get white men you employ Indians ?- A. Yes, that is the case. Indians are always on the spot, and you can always have them when you want them. They are there in the neigh- borhood, and I can get the services of either one or a dozen if I want them at any time.

Q. Then, in the interior it would be as expensive for you to get Chinese laborers as white laborers ?- A. Yes, I think so.

Chinese labor expensive in the inferior.

Q. Their wages are not so high in the larger towns ?- A. Not quite so In town wages high. They certainly work for a little less than the white men. less.

Q. As a rule, do the Chinamen accumulate any property there-I mean They accumulate any that would be taxable ?- A. Yes, they have personal property ; a taxable property. great many of them have horses, stock, etc.

Q. Do these goods pay taxes ?- A. Yes, there is a tax on personal Pay taxes. property-a provincial tax.

Q. As a rule, do they put their money into property, or keep it in Investment. currency ? A. I don't think they put much into property.

Q. As a rule, are they residents, or only what may be called denizens Temporary resi- of the towns, living there temporarily ?- A. As a rule, they live there dents of towns. temporarily.

Q. Is that not their idea, that they go there just for a time ?- A. It may be, just the same as the idea of all visitors to a new country.

Q. Are they a migrating class of people. moving from one part of the Migrating. Province to another ?- A. They move a good deal from one portion of the Province to another.

Q. Why ?- A. In search of employment.

Seeking employ- ment.

Not allowed franchise.

Q. Do you say that a Chinaman who holds property is not allowed to. exercise his franchise ?- A. He is not.

Q. Is that not an arbitrary law ? - A. I think it is.

Effect of.

Q. There is no encouragement for them to become property holders ?- A. No.

Q. Unless they are allowed the same privileges as other citizens they are not likely to become so ?-- A. No.

Not expedient. Q. Do you think, Mr. Cornwall, that the country would be justified in admitting the Chinese to exercise the franchise ?- A. That is one of those. very difficult questions to answer. You can look at it in two ways. Perhaps, as a matter of expediency, it is better that they should not.

Why.

Q. Why not ? A. Because from their ignorance of our institutions and" our language, it is impossible for them to inform themselves so as to give an intelligent vote.

Q. Are there any Chinese located near you as farmers ?- A. Yes.

Farm.

Q. Where ?- A. There is one Chinese farmer about fifteen miles from where I live.

Live well.

Q. Do the Chinese in the interior consume much beef ?- A. Yes ; they live very well when they have the means.

Q. Are they large purchasers of beef ?- A. Yes, they always buy beef.

Q. Are you aware whether they consume as much per man as white men ?- A. I do not think they do. Their favorite animal food is pork (something like the Western States people) and poultry.

Q. Do they buy their pork from the pork-growers, or do they grow if themselves ? A. They do both. They buy a great deal from other- farmers.

Q. Do they use much flour ?- A. Yes ; they always use flour.

Q. In large quantities ?-- A. I could hardly say.

Q. Do they use rice ?- A. Yes.

Q. Which do you think they use most of, rice or flour ?- A. Rice, I think.

Q. Where does their rice come from ; is it Chinese rice ?- A. I think it is Chinese rice.

Q. Do they use much sugar ?- A. Yes, I think so. They are very fond of sweet things.

Q. Where does their sugar come from ?- A. I suppose it is the sugar- that is generally used in the country.

Q. Is it Chinese sugar or Island sugar ?-- A, I think it is Sandwich Island sugar, or that from the refineries of San Francisco.

Q. They buy it from the merchants, do they ?-- A. Yes; from the Chinese merchants.

Q. Do they deal with each other ?- A. Yes, somewhat extensively in Victoria.

Q. Are they as clannish in that way, and do they give their patronage to their own friends ? A. Yes ; I should think they were ; they are very much the same as other people in that respect.

Q. Are they industrious ?- A. Yes ; they are always at their work. Industrious.

Q. Are they peaceable citizens ?- A. Very. Peaceable.

Q. If public works-the Pacific Railway, for instance-were cons- Public works. tructed in British Columbia, what would be the effect upon the cost if Chinese labor were to be employed ?- A. On Provincial works ?

Q. No; the Pacific Railway, for instance ?- A. I should look at the On C. P. R. Domi- question this way : In the interest of the Province, I should think it cial interest.

nion and provin- would be better for white people to be emploped ; in the interest of the Dominion it would be better to employ Chinese, if they could be got cheaper than white people.

Q. Your idea is that it would not be much cheaper to build the Pacific Cash. Railway by means of Chinese labor ?- A. My idea is that it would not be much cheaper.

Q. Suppose three or four million dollars were to be expended on public Public works. works, and there were an advertisement for three or four thousand laborers, what proportion of Chinese do you suppose would be employed ; do you suppose they would be more likely than other classes to rush into the country to obtain this labor ?- A. I do not think so.

Q. Is there any fear of a very large proportion of them coming there in the event of public works being projected ?- A. I suppose if they were sure of getting permanent employment at a certain rate of wages, you might be able to find a sufficient number for a large work.

Q. Would it not be expected that white people would rush in as fast as White laborers. the Chinese ? A. I should think you could always obtain a sufficient number of white laborers.

Q. Are they temperate as a rule ?- A. As far as I know they are. Temperate.

Q. More so than the whites ?- A. Oh, much more. I do not think I More so than have ever seen an intoxicated Chinaman. No doubt there are such, but white men. I have not seen any.

Q. What do you think is the general opinion of the people of British Feeling, in British Columbia, with regard to allowing them to settle permanently in the them holding Columbia against Province ?- A. I thing the feeling against their settling permanently lands in fee. would be very strong against their occupying lands-against their holding lands in fee simple.

Q. Is the objection to the Chinese confined to the white laboring Objection to con- classes, or is it felt by most men ?- A. I think it is confined to the white fined to white lahoring classes. laboring classes.

Q. They are a little jealous, I suppose ?- A. Yes ; I think that is the origin of the feeling amongst them.

Q. Do some of them make money ? A. I think some of them make a good deal of money.

Q. What do they do with it-spend it in the country or take it away ? A. Those who have been in my employ, and of whom I can speak with confidence, have spent very much in the country. I have often known them to be very liberal when asked to contribute to different objects. They always clothe themselves uncommonly well, and provide themselves with such comforts as are supposed to be necessary. They always have good watches, and all that sort of thing. In these respects they compare most favorably with the ordinary class of white people.

Q. Has the Legislature of British Columbia taken any steps to prohibit them coming into the country ?- A. Yes ; there were some very stringent steps taken about a year ago.

Q. In what shape ?- A. In the way of imposing a very heavy special yearly tax upon Chinamen.

Q. A discriminating tax ?-- A. Yes.

Q. Was that constitutional ?- A. It was found by the Supreme Court of British Columbia that it was not constitutional.

Q. Not by the Supreme Court, but by one of the judges of that court ? --- A. The judge of the Supreme Court is the Supreme Court.

Q. If the Chinamen had not come to British Columbia, do you think more white people would have come to settle down with their families and cultivate the soil ?- A. No ; I have no reason to think so.

. Your agricultural experience does not lead you to think that ?- A. No.

Q. Have you heard miners or other people complain that they could not get wives ? A. I do not know whether I have or not.

Q. I suppose white labor is in good demand there? A. It is.

Q. What is the rate per month for farm hands? - A. In my part of the country ?

Q. Yes ; or any other part of the country ? A. I have two men per- manently on my farm ; one gets $50 a month for the year round, and the other $45 a month.

Q. With board or without ?- A. With board.

Q. Are those white men or Chinamen ?- A, White men.

Q. Have they families ?-- A. No.

Q. So, then, they have no other privilege but what you speak of-I mean they do not keep horses or a cow ?- A. They are found in every- thing they require.

Q. Is that the average rate of wages for white men ?- A. Yes ; that is in my neighborhood. Many men get more than that, but perhaps for only a few months in the summer.

Could white men going there get employment at these rates ?-- A. No ; Chinese household not so much. I have two Chinamen employed as household servants ; one of them gets $35 and the other $30 a month.

Q. Do you know what rate of wages Chinamen get when employed on Wages as farm the farm ?- A. Very much the same. I have known Chinamen to get hands. more than $45 a month on farms ; they were exceptionally good hands.

Q. Were they employed throughout the summer? A. Yes ; during the farming season.

Q. Do you employ Chinamen for irrigation on the farm ?- A. Yes ; Irrigation. they are employed a good deal in that way.

Q. Do they make good agricultural hands ?- No ; not generally. Not good agricul- turalists.

Q. They do not understand the work ?- A. They are wonderfully pains- taking, of course, and for certain work they would be useful, but not for the general uses that you require a man for in a new country. You require a man who can turn his hand to anything.

Q. They are very imitative ?- A. 'Very imitative. They are wonder- Imitatve good fully good gardeners. The way in which they make lands produce in the gardeners. neighborhood of a town where they may start market-gardening is some- thing extraordinary. Before the Chinamen went into that sort of work in the neighborhood of Victoria, I never knew a town that was more badly supplied with market vegetables ; and since they have taken up Vegetable supply gardening there I never knew a town better supplied. They have a in Victoria. climate there in which they can produce vegetables all the year round, if sufficient care is taken in the cultivation of the soil.

Q. Are you aware whether the farmers around Victoria complain of Farmers com- Chinese competition ?- A. Yes ; I have heard that complaint. plain.

Q. And have you heard the statement that they were almost prohibited Deficiency vege- from making any sales of vegetables in the city ?- A. I have heard that tables before. complaint continually. But what I have said just now is really the case, that until Chinamen took up that sort of work in Victoria, there were hardly any vegetables in the markets.

Q. And they were, therefore, an acquisition ? A. Quite an acquisition. Acquisition. By the Chairman .

Q. That is news to me, and I have been there twenty-one years ?- A. I have been there seventeen years, and I am sure that before the Chinamen came there, there were no vegetables to be got to speak of.

Q. Have you visited the jail in Victoria ?- A. No. Jail.

Q. Have you visited the Penitentiary ?- A. Yes. Penitentiary.

Q. Have you seen a larger portion of the prisoners to have been Proportion. Chinese than white people ?- A. No.

Q. Are they more subject to larceny or other crimes than the white Larceny. people ?- A. No ; not so far as my knowledge goes.

Q. Are they as much ?- A. No; I think the Chinese are exemplary in that respect. It is very seldom that there is a charge made against a Chinaman. They seem to me to be a law-abiding class.

Q. You have never leved in Cariboo .- A. No.

Q. You have never had any knowledge of the burglaries and robberies that have been committed by Chinamen ? No. I know this, that if an unfortunate Chinaman commits anything of that sort he is bounded down, not by the Chinese but by the whites. If a Chinaman was supposed to have committed a crime of any sort he would be followed by white men of a certain class, who would make a point of running him down if they possibly could ; but if one of their own fellows was guilty of a like offense, the whites I speak of would seldom think of acting in the same way towards him.

Q. What is the general feeling in British Columbia as to the desirability of discouraging Chinese immigration ?- A. I should think that the feeling against the Chinese is widely spread. The employers of labor and the better classes in British Columbia recognize the advantage of having the Chinese there ; but the working classes, aided by politicians have raised the cry against them.

Q. Does it not appear strange that the farmers on Vancouver Island who want hands should not employ Chinese ?- A. I don't think so at all. The reason is just as I said before. Where there is not much difference in the rate of wages you have to give, anybody would naturally rather employ white labor. The whole of the facts regarding this question go to show that there is really no ground of complaint on the part of workmen and that wherever they can, employers of labor employ white men in preference to Chinamen.

Q. Do you know of any Chinese having erected factories in British Columbia ?-- A. No ; I do not remember. The Chinese there are simply laborers, &c., and their coming and going is regulated by supply of and demand for labor.

I should say that the Chinese are a law-abiding class. They are perhaps the most law-abiding class I have come in contact with. It is rare that there is any serious crime laid to their charge ; we have often heard rumors that they are very immoral in a way that is unmentionable. But this is merely a rumor, as I understand ; nobody knows anything about it.

Q. Will you give us an idea of the habits of the Chinese ; have you been in their houses :- A. I have been in different Chinese houses ; I have not been in any of their houses in the towns, which, I understand, are inhabited closely. The Chinese rooms that I have been in have always been as clean and nice as possible.

Police reports upreme Court, .ssizes, &c. The Chairman Mr. De Cosmos. - The best criterion that the committee could have respecting the morality of the Chinese, and whether they are ecommanded by offenders against the laws or not, would be the reports of the Police Chinese. Courts, the Supreme Court, the Assizes, &c. ; I think it is desirable that we should obtain these reports.

Q. You have never lived in a part of the country where there was a large section of Chinese population settled ?- A. No; I have not .. One

of the charges more frequently made against the Chinamen is that of aggravated assault. They are perhaps oftener charged with that than any other offence ; that is owing to their impulsive nature. They will seize whatever comes nearest to their hands and strike their opponent with it ; in that way they often get into trouble. I have never known a case of that kind maliciously premeditated. The offence of a Chinaman is seldom overlooked.

Q. Nor would it be overlooked in the case of a white man, if a white Treatment. man were subject to the same charge ?- A. The class who have signed the petition would not overlook the case of a Chinaman charged in that way, while they continually do so when one of their own number so offends.

Q. That is the class on which society is built ?- A. I should say, so Society. much the worse for society.

Q. Is there any other rock on which society is built than the laborer ? Floating laborers. -A. Floating laborers-those who live from hand to mouth and move from country to country.

Q. I do not refer to floating laborers; I mean the laborers of British British Columbia Columbia ? A. I should say the laborers of British Columbia were not migratory. the rocks on which society is built ; they are essentially a migratory class.

RESULTS.

If personal prejudice and feeling be eliminated from this evidence, it is Resault of evi- impossible not to admit that as a laboring class the preponderence is not racter. against the Chinese. They are stated to be honest in their dealings, industrious, sober, peaceable and law-abiding, frugal and cleanly, and when Dome doing well to live well, consuming the same articles and goods, as do the servants. white laborers, thereby equally contributing with them to the revenue. Non competion That as domestic servants they are quite as good if not preferable. That tries. they do not compete or interfere with lumbering, farming, or any skilled industry, and that even in market gardening they could be beaten by the whites, if the latter were willing to work as hard, as shown by the ins- tance of the Italian gardeners in San Francisco. That the preference Preference in throughout the whole Province is in favor of white labor, and the proceeds of white industry, if brought within the purchasing power of those who able. have to pay, but that the wages demanded by the white laborers are such Too expensive. as few persons can afford to give ; that the great canning industry of the Province could not have been carried on without them. That they utilize Utility. and draw returns from grounds that the whites would not till, and from mines which they have abandoned.

That the white laboring classes themselves, the moment they become Blue Monday. contractors are the first to employ the Chinese as laborers, and that the manufacturers prefer them, because they have no " Blue Mondays." That To be depended in mining countries on great public undertakings they are more to be on. depended on, as the white laborers rush off to the mining grounds, when they hear of a successful " strike," whereas the Chinese do not ;- and that Presence useful up to this time their presence in the Province had been most useful, if not indispensible.

The conclusions of the Committee must have been in accord with the evidence, for after sitting for weeks, and hearing all that the representa-

dence as to cha-

with skilled indus-

in favor of white labor if obtain-

4

tives of British Columbia could say upon the subject, and all the evidence they could bring, the Report signed by the Chairman from British Colum- bia, simply recommends "that Chinese emigration ought not be encour- aged. "That Chinese labor ought not be employed on Dominion Public Works." Anything more faintly condemnatory could hardly have been put.

The question was not, should Chinese immigration be encouraged, but should the coming of the Chinese into the country be prevented. Had it been injurious or not ? Did the state of the country admit doing without it ? No one desired to encourage Chinese immigration, but under all the circumstances was it better for the country to be without it? Had the Country's material prosperity been advanced or retarded by it? On these points with all this evidence before it, with all that, the British Columbia members could bring, or by examination elicit from the witnesses, the Committee, with its Chairman, a member from British Columbia, most carefully abstain from the expression of an opinion.

Such is the only evidence that up to this time, has been laid before the Parliament and the country.

It will have again to be considered in connection with the evidence taken by this Commission in British Columbia.

CHAPTER 4.

We now submit the evidence taken in British Columbia by the Com- missioners in the order in which it was given and received. It will be found to cover the objections raised in the Petition to the Parliament, and in the interrogatories directed to persons residing in British Colum- bia. The answers to the written interrogatories were returned after the lapse of several weeks. In some instances, answers were accom- panied with written requests that they should not be used. An embargo having thus been laid on their practical utility, the Commissioners have not felt justified in including them in the return to the Commission. There may have been private reasons affecting their personal interests which induced the writers to make such requests, and as the evidence sought was intended to be the spontaneous expression of the people of the Province, without fear of any injurious consequences, these requests had to be regarded.

From numbers to whom the questions were addressed no answers have been received, for reasons it must be presumed satisfactory to them- selves.

The questions it will be perceived are directed to the following points :

1. The class of immigrants from China.

2. As to their state of health on arrival.

3. As to their being a burden on the people of the Province from want, sickness or otherwise.

4, 5 and 6. Their habits, as to industry, sobriety, economy, obedience

to law and fidelity to contracts, or interference with the whites, by competition and otherwise in the labor market.

7, 8 and 9. As to their first reception in the Province, the want they supplied, and the period when, and by whom, the agitation against them first commenced, and by what classes it is now carried on.

10. As to their habits being injurious to the public morals or public health.

11, 12 and 13. As to the effect of their presence on the development of the Province, whether longer necessary or desirable, and the effect upon the comfort and prosperity of the people, should they leave, or be driven out.

14, 15 and 16. As to what number in proportion to the whites would be for the best interest of the Province, and what would be the effect upon the introduction of capital, if the supply of domestic servants was depend- ent upon those coming from Europe or America.

17, 18 and 19. Whether there should be an expulsion of those here, or restriction or regulation of their further immigration, or could an effectual supply of white labor be obtained by the combined effort of the Province and its Legislature with equal advantage to the province.

20, 21 and 22. As to whether there be steady remunerative work for white people in the Province, what the effect of opening up the railway Belt has been, or whether the presence of the Chinese has retarded white immigration,

23, 24 and 25. What effect their presence has had upon the morals of the people.

26 and 27. As to knowledge of leprosy, or other general information.

These questions it will be observed afford the broadest latitude of en- quiry, and an opportunity for the statement of facts, or expression of opinion to the fullest extent, the person answering may desire to go. They were intentionally framed so as to give this latitude and to elicit the most unrestricted information. They were further accompanied and strength- ened by the general invitation given by the Commissioners at the opening of the Commission in Victoria, and duly published, to all parties to come forward and place before the Commissioners orally, or by writing, their views on the subjeet ; enabling those who, from sensitiveness, sickness or other causes, were unwilling to come forward in public, to convey their opinions as well as those more accustomed to public life.

The total number who came forward or replied was 51, as in the follow- ing list :-

WITNESSES :

1. John Westhrop Carey, Victoria, Mayor.

2. Charles T. Bloomfield, Superintendent of Police.

3. John Hearn, Sergeant of Police.

4. Hon. A. E. B. Davie, Attorney-General.

5. Dr. Helmcken, R. C. Surgeons, London.

6. Charles Wilson, Cariboo, Barrister.

7. W. K. Bull, Victoria, Tax Collector.

8. John Jessop, Provincial Immigration Agent.

9. Hon. John Robson, Victoria, Provincial Secretary.

10. W. Tuckfield,

11. Richard Jones, Provincial Tax Collector.

12. Sir M. B. Begbie, Chief Justice, B. C.

13. Joseph Metcalf, Jr., Nanaimo.

14. Robert Ward, Victoria, Commission Merchant.

15. James Young, Nanaimo.

16. R. F. Johns, South Saanich, M. P. P., Farmer.

17. E. Stevenson, M. D., Victoria, College Ph. & Sur. Ontario.

18. Benjamin M. Pearse, יי formerly Surveyor Gen'l.

19. Thomas E. Ladner, New Westminster, Fraser Riv. Salmon Can- nery.

20. John Laity, Maple Ridge, Farm laborer.

21. John Tremblath, Farmer.

22. J. W. Innis, Esquimalt, Naval Storekeeper, H. M. Dockyard.

23. W. H. Ladner, Ladner's Landing, Fraser River, Salmon Can- nery.

24. Wm. C. Ward, Victoria, Manager Bank B. C.

25. James B. Kennedy, New Westminster, Lumberman.

26. Robert Scott, Nanaimo, Wellington Collieries.

27. William Moresby, New Westminster, Gaoler.

28. John Bryden, Nanaimo, Wellington Collieries.

29. Mathew Trotter Johnson, Victoria, Merchant.

30. W. B. Adair, Fraser River, British American Packing Co. 66 31. D. R. Lord,

32. E. V. Bodwell, Victoria Railway Accountant.

33. W. J. Armstrong, New Westminster, Sheriff.

34. Samuel M. Robins, Nanaimo, Superintendent Vancouver Coal Company.

35. John Tindal, Victoria.

36. Michael Haney, Yale, Irishman, Superintendent C. P. R.

37. W. Stephenson, Forks Quesnelle.

38. Rev. Philip Dwyer, Victoria, Killaloe Cathedral, Ireland.

39. Robert Dunsmuir, M. P. P., Victoria, Proprietor Wellington Mines.

40. J. Dawson, Nanaimo, J. P.

41. David Wm. Gordon, M. P., Nanaimo, Contractor and Builder.

42. Hon. Mr. Justice Crease, Victoria, British Columbia, Supreme Court.

43. Andrew Onderdonk, C. P. Railway Contractor.

44. Emily Wharton, Victoria, L. E. V

45. C. T. Dupont, Inspector Inland Revenue.

46. Hon, M. T. Drake, President Ex. Co. B. C.

47. Knights of Labor, Nanaimo, No. 3017.

48. John A. Bradley, Victoria.

49. Huang-Sic-Chen, Chinese Consulate San Francisco.

50. Gilbert Malcolm Sproat, Essayist.

51. R. O'Brien, M. D., Nanaimo, President N. Tra. Association.

The following are the questions :----

1. What classes of people come here as emigrants from China ? Are they chiefly laborers, mechanics or traders ?

2. When they arrive here, do they usually arrive in good health and fit for work ?

3. Have you any system of public poor relief, and do they often become a burden on that fund, or upon the private charity of white citizens ?

4. Are they industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding or are they lazy, drunken, extravagant or turbulent ? Please answer this ques- tion fully.

5. Do they respect their engagements with white men, and carry out their contracts ?

6. Do they show any disposition to interfere with the prospects of the white population in any way beyond the competition which they offer in the labor market ?

7. When the Chinese first came to this Province, did they supply a want then felt, and was their coming encouraged and welcomed ?

8. Up to what period did that feeling continue ?

9. When did the agitation against the Chinese begin, and what class or classes of people began it, and what classes are now carrying it forward ?

10. Is there anything in their habits or mode of living injurious to the public peace, or to the public health ? Please answer this question fully.

11. Has the presence of Chinese contributed to the development of the Province ?

12. Is their presence here any longer necessary or desirable ?

13. What would be the effect upon the comfort and prosperity of the people of this Province, if they were to go hence voluntarily or other- wise ?

14. Are not a certain number necessary, and if so, how many ?

15. What proportion (if any) should Chinese immigration bear to the immigration of white people in order to advance the best interests of the colony and provide for the comfort of the people now here, or those who- may come here ?

16. What would be the effect upon immigration into this colony of persons with capital, if the supply of domestic servants depended upon the. number of such coming from Europe or other parts of America ?

17. Is it your opinion that the present Chinese residents should be forced to leave this Province, or the further advent of others should be

prevented, or merely that the numbers coming should be regulated in some manner, as to the number and choice of such emigrants ?

18. What manner would you suggest should be adopted to restrict or regulate their coming ?

19. Would a combined effort on the part of the people of this Province and its Legislature, to encourage white immigration, and discourage the employment of Chinese, effectually furnish a supply of white labor, exclude Chinese immigration and at the same time develop the natural resources of the colony as speedily and safely as they are now being developed ?

20. Can white people now find remunerative employment here and steady work, and is such remuneration adequate to support and clothe and educate their families and make reasonable provision for old age ?

21. Has not the opening up of the public lands reserved for railway purposes had a material effect on the immigration of settlers to this Province ?

22. Has white immigration been retarded by the presence of Chinese immigrants in this Province ?

23. What personal observations have you made as to the effect of the Chinese upon the morals of the white people, and are they more injurious than white people of similar or allied habits.

24. Is the proportion of depraved and immoral people amongst the Chinese here greater than amongst white population in other places similarly situated, where the Chinese are not found ?

25. Do the vicious and depraved flaunt their vice and depravity more openly or more effectually than do white people in similar classes ?

26. What personal knowledge have you of the presence of leprosy amongst them and have you any personal knowledge of leprosy being communicated from them to the whites, and if so, how many instances and under what circumstances ?

27. Can you give any statistical or other information, or furnish any facts bearing on the general question now being considered by the commission, which will facilitate its work, or make its labors more complete ?

Though several of the objections to which the above enquiries were directed will hereafter require and receive separate and distinct consider- ation, it may be said that the conclusions deducible from the whole evidence so taken by the commissioners in British Columbia as well as from their personal observations and enquiries agree with those, to be drawn from the evidence taken before the Committee of the House of Commons in 1879.

There is the same preponderating testimony as to the sobriety, industry and frugality of the Chinese as manual laborers, and the reliance to be placed upon their performance of contracts. There is at the same time

evidence of the great antipathy of race, and the undoubted preference for General result. white labor throughout the Province, with a difference of opinion as to the benefit hitherto derived from their presence, and the necessity of its continuance. With one or two marked exceptions, the preponderance is in favor of restrictions upon their future advent in large numbers, leaving alone those who are now in the Province ; but a close inspection of the evidence, shows the conclusions on one side, to be the result of practical observation and experience in connection with the actual circum- stances of the country, the other to be more or less theoretical, and the result of long engendered prejudice, natural enough perhaps with minds brooding on ideal perfection, but not in accordance with human nature or the habits of mankind even in the most civilised countries.

The habits and modes of life of the Chinese are in many respect objec- tionable, their religious practices idolatrous and offensive, their sordid desire for the accumulation of money and hoarding it up injurious, but these same faults are to be found among other people, and if all were excluded against whom such charges could be brought, the population of British Columbia would be extremely limited.

The soundest legislation in a free country is that which based on the Sound legislation, highest moral principles, at the same time recognizes the existence of the frailties and errors of mankind, and so frames its enactments that it will accomplish the greatest good attainable for the greatest number though it may not be all the good that might be desired. You cannot straight- lace a free nation.

CHAPTER 5.

OPIUM SMOKING AND PROSTITUTION.

At the end of the Long Drive in the Royal Park at Windsor, about two miles from the Castle, on the spot where four roads met, forty years ago there stood, and it may stand there yet, a monument erected by the late King George the IV., to his father George the III. It was sur- George tha 4th to mounted with the figure of the old king, and bore this inscription : George the 3rd.

" Pius filius optimo Patri."

The relations between father and son from youth to age hardly war- ranted this descriptive tribute. Either History or the monument must tell an untruth.

It, however, clearly indicates one suggestion, that to arrive at truth, Examination of we must examine the characters of those who give characters to them- character. selves or others, as well as the characters of those to whom the characters are given. The Italian proverb tells us, " Every medal has its reverse."

We are, therefore, in the present instance to examine not only the characters given to the Chinese, bnt the characters of those who give them.

No Canadian will pretend to defend prostitution or opium smoking. Both are vices to be prevented if possible, and as far as possible, but what we have at present to determine is whether the Chinese are the cause of the country. these evils in the country, for if not, punishing them will not only not remove the evil, but would be an act of injustice, discreditable to a free and self-governing country.

It is urged, as one of the gravest objections to the presence of the Chi-

Are the Chinese the cause of theit being brought into

nese, that they are in the habit of opium smoking, and introduce that habit in the places where they are permitted to dwell.

Opium forced on the Chinese by the British. Apart from the historical fact, that our country within the last thirty years forced the use of opium upon the Chinese, burned their towns, de- molished their fortifications, and slaughtered their people, to compel them to admit it into China, against the wish of its government and its inhabi- tants, as an article of trade and consumption, besides making them pay seventeen millions of pounds sterling as indemnity and war expenses, for The lorcha Arrow. presumiug to resist its importation, and seizing a little vessel, on board of which it was found, entering one of their ports, that vessel bearing the British flag, and the article itself being the production of our own East Indian possessions, and an essential factor, from which we derived the means of bearing the expenses of the East Indian Government; the start- ling fact meets us that it was in use among the British people themselves long before the advent of the Chinese into British Columbia, or as work- ing classes either into America or Great Britain, and was and is used in Its ancient usc. immense quantities among the European nations where a Chinaman never was seen. That the flower from which it is derived grows in almost every garden of Europe and America, and that it is a common article of barter and of trade among the clvilized nations of the world. That it is used in Used in various ways Chloral morphine. half a dozen different ways, and may be found in every apothecary's shop in England and America. That as chloral, morphine and chewing, it is far more extensively and more dangerously used, and less capable of being detected than the practice of opium smoking.

The poppy.

It may be not inappropriate, in discussing this phase of the question very briefly, to refer to some of the authorities bearing on its use. The British, French and American scientists recognize it as derived exclusive- ly from the papaver somniferum, or the ordinary white and black poppy. In India the flower appears in February, in Europe and the United States not earlier than June, July or August. All parts of the poppy contain a white opaque narcotic juice. In the capsule the juice most abounds ; the Cultivation. seeds are destitute of narcotic property. It was cultivated by the ancient Greeks, and is mentioned by Homer as a garden-plant. It is at present cultivated very extensively in India, Persia, Egypt and Asiatic Turkey for opium, and in several parts of Europe, especially France and Germany for the seeds, though in both countries, good opium is at the same time produced. Though until recently only found in the gardens as an orna- mental flower, of late, attempts have been made to cultivate it on a some In United States and Australia. what larger scale in the United States ; and with success in Australia and in the Province of Victoria. Commerce is supplied with opium chiefly from Hindostan, Persia, Egypt and Asiatic Turkey. Immense quantities are produced in the Indian Provinces of Bahar and Benares, and in the more interior province of Malwa. The opium of Hindostan is distributed extensively through continental and insular India, where it is habitually employed in the place of spirituous liquors. Great quantities are also sent to China, into which it finds an easy entrance notwith- standing prohibitory laws. Much was formerly produced in the district of ancient Thebes, Upper Egypt, and laudanum was well known as Increase of Consumption In Tinctura Thebaicum. The increase of consumption in the United States the United States- may be judged from the following importations :

In 1878

207,752 lbs. " 1879

1880 .278,554

372,880

Opium is much adulterated. It has been stated in Athens by a per- son engaged in the extraction of opium that grapes, freed from their seeds and crushed, were almost universally mixed with the poppy-juice, and that the inspissated juice of the grape thickened with flour is often used for the same purpose. In the report on the progress and condition of India for 1871-72 it is stated that the cultivation of opium in India is increasing, there being at the time of the report 500,000 acres in Bengal, and 608 acres in Bombay planted with the poppy, and that the exports of opium for the same year amounted to 893,364 chests, valued at £13,365,- Value in crop in 288 sterling, or $66,826,440 .- ( United States Dispensatory. 15th Edition ; India $66,826,440. title. Opium.)

Having thus shown the enormous value of the opium crop in India, for which Great Britain insisted upon having China as a market, it may be of importance to ascertain what quantity is imported into Canada, its value, and the duties paid. It is clearly recognized as a legitimate article of trade and commerce, and the accompanying return shows that during the last three years there has been imported into the several Provinces of the Dominion a total in value of $400,555, on which duties were paid to the Dominion revenue of $79,110.

STATEMENT of the Quantity and Value of Opium entered for Consumption in each Province of the Dominion, also the duty collected thereon during the fiscal years ended, 30th June, 1882, 1883, 1884 respectively.

ENTERED FOR CONSUMPTION.

PROVINCE.

OPIUM.

OPIUM PREPARED FOR SMOKING.

Quantity.

Value.

Duty.

Quantity.

Value.

Duty.

1882.

Lbs.

$

$

Lbs.

$

$

Ontario

790

2,444

488 80

....

Quebec

1,868

5,591

1,118 20

....

...

Nova Scotia ...

186

471

94 20

....

......

New Brunswick

184

613

122 60

....

....

......

Manitoba

4

15

3 00

.. .

....

...

British Columbia

21,567

78,833

15,766 52

2

28

10 00

Prince Edward Island.

...

....

Total.

24,599

$87,967

$17,593 32

2

$28

$10 00

1883.

Ontario,

Quebec

1,792

5,133

1,026 60

....

......

Nova Scotia.

..

....

..

New Brunswick

....

......

Manitoba

1

5

1 00

....

British Columbia

30,235

106,367

21,273 40|

3

43

... 15 00

Prince Edward Island.

...

..

Total.

32,028

$111,505| $22,301 00

3

$50

$17 50

....

7

2 50

ENTERED FOR CONSUMPTION.

PROVINCE.

OPIUM.

OPIUM PREPARED FOR SMOKING.

Quantity.

Value.

Duty.

Quantity.

Value.

Duty.

1884.

Lbs.

ef:

$

Lbs.

$

$

Ontario.

2,087

3,241

648 20|

Quebec ..

2,007

5,463

1,092 60

Nova Scotia.

63

227

45 40

Manitoba

I

3

00

3

1 25

British Columbia.

56,542

192,149

38,429 80

15

214

75 00

Prince Edward Island . .

....

...

Total

60,700

$201,083

$40,216 60

15ł

217

$76 25

J. JOHNSON, Commissioner of Customs ..

Customs Department, Ottawa, 28th October, 1884.

These returns show an amount of importation of opium into British Columbia entirely out of proportion to the population, as compared with that of the other Provinces, and equally out of proportion to consumption by the number of Chinese in the Province. It may in some degree be explained (though not justified) by the long continuous boundary line between British Columbia and the United States, extending for hun- dreds of miles along the 49th parallel, through unsettled districts, affording extraordinary facilities for smuggling opium by the Chinese in British Columbia into the United States for the use of the many thousands of their countrymen in Oregon, Washington Territory, California and along the Pacific coast.

Its use also, as a legitimate source of municipal revenue, is recognized by the city of Victoria, having, during the first half of the current year, issued to the Chinese eleven opium licences at $500 a piece, netting a revenue of $5,500 to the city. It is difficult to make the Chinese under- stand, why its use is so objectionable, when the Dominion Government permits it to come into the country as a common article of trade, and the city government makes money by granting licenses for its sale. Nor can they understand why they themselves are so objectionable, when in addi- tion to the opium licenses-the city government grants them liquor licences for selling spirits at $50 a piece, thus adding still more to the city revenue.

From this opium comes chloral, morphine and other extracts and com- pounds far more dangerous in their effects, and much more used by the higher and cultivated members of English, European and American society than is the opium for smoking by the Chinese. Of chloral though not well understood before 1869, in 1878 (less than ten years) its con-

New Brunswick

:sumption was estimated at one ton daily, in England and America alone, ranging from inocuous doses at thirty grains to danger and death at one gland and hundred and twenty, when used as an hypnotic. It is far more seductive America. in its effects, and more dangerous in its consequences. It affects the brain, the spinal cord, the intellect, and brings on imbecility and death. (U. S. Dispens).

An American paper thus refers to its use in a very late issue :

" A terrible vice has crept in among the fair sex of New York. Fashion- able ladies from the ' Fifth ' and the adjoining regions of the high-toned may be seen entering drug stores and calling in silvery accents for a glass of soda-water. Into this inocuous beverage white crystals from a white mouthed bottle are dropped and dissolved. The solution is gulped, fifteen cents are paid, and the elegantly dressed apparition vanishes. These ladies are known as "chloral fiends.' The drug is now imported into New York by the ton. This is, as a weakness, worse than opium smoking because more readily indulged in, and almost as revolting as the hypo dermic injection of morphia."

Its use should be limited to medicinal or scientific purposes, and every aid should be given to those who seek to prevent its consumption being introduced as a habit among our people either for smoking or other merely indulgent ends.

The evidence taken before the Commission in British Columbia shows No tendency in no perceptible tendency among the people of the Province, in any way, to adopt such a habit. In every city, in every part of the world, there will habit. possibly be found persons of the lowest and most degraded habits who frequent opium dens, but they are almost always persons who have fallen so low from previous debauchery and vice, that there is no lower depth to which they can descend.

With reference to Chinese prostitution the evidence shows that out of Chinese Prostitu- a total of 10,550 Chinese in the Province there are altogether only 154 tion. ·Chinese women, of whom seventy are prostitutes, scattered throughout the Province entirely among their own countrymen many as concubines, that relationship being among them deemed no offence, and no discredit.

It is doubful whether a similar number of English or American people in a strange country would show any better record, though they might not use exactly the same terms. In dealing with this question it is impossible to avoid plain language.

The evidence does not show reasonable ground for fearing in British Columbia any contaminating influence from either one or the other of these vices, as coming from the Chinese. It may safely be affirmed that the white associates (few as they are) of the low Chinese in these vices will be themselves found to come from the lowest and most degraded classes of the whites, persons so utterly dead to every feeling that becomes either a respectable man or a virtuous woman, that wherever they might be, in whatever city of the world, if it were possible to find any place lower than an opium den or a Chinese house of prostitution, it is there they would have to be sought. It is a reflection upon the people of British Columbia to assume that as a people they could be led away by such degraded tastes.

In the police reports extending over five years from 1879, there are Poli ce Reports only two charges against the Chinese for prostitution, and none against any of the Chinese for the improper sale or use of opium, or for having

misled, seduced, or enticed any white man, woman or child into the places of residence, or for having beguiled them in any way into the company for improper purposes, either of co-habitation or opium smokin

It may here be observed that the police of the city of Victoria are fine body of men, prompt in the discharge of their duties, vigilant as 1 offences against the laws, or infractions of the municipal regulations ; an in no way tainted with love or affection for the Chinese.

Whiskey drinking.

prostitute.

In a country where whiskey drinking prevails to an unlimited exten White and Indian and where white and Indian prostitutes can be found and are known 1 exist in unknown numbers, it seems a contradiction to assume a dread ‹ the white population becoming demoralized from the presence of sevent Chinese prostitutes, in a population of 10,550 Chinese people living i accordance with the customs of their own country, and a practice c opium smoking among their own people, infinitessimally small, whe compared with the practice of whiskey drinking among the whites, unles it be upon the principle declared by one of the residents, who, when aske by the commissioners. "What was the difference between getting drun on whiskey and getting drunk on opium ?" indignantly replied. "Tha one was a Christian habit, the other was a heathen vice," a distinctio: which it would be difficult for Carlyle to comprehend or Father Matthew to apply .- " Mutato nomine de te fabula narratur."

A Christian habit and a heathen vice.

The fact is that the statements in these two respects are merely repeti tions of the charges made in San Francisco, without the slightest ground for their application to Canada as a whole, or British Columbia as a par of the Dominion ; unless, indeed, it be contended that the records of th courts-of the police office and the public institutions of the country ar untrue, and that its public officers, its police, its grand juries, and muni cipal authorities are all alike negligent and inefficient in the discharge o their public duties, regardless of the welfare of the people, and indifferen to the morals of the young and rising generation. It is weakening th position by crowding the enquiry with unsupported charges. But, if w turn to Col. Bee's evidence (page 20), taken at San Francisco, we find that the truth of this charge, as to danger from Chinese prostitution even as applied to San Francisco, is emphatically denied.

There are grave and there are serious objections to the Chinese as : class of settlers, but these objections are not strengthened by imputing te them offences similar to those our own people are in the habit of commit ting, whether they be called, whiskey drinking or opium smoking, prostitu tion or concubinage.

CHAPTER 6.

SECRET SOCIETIES .- WANT OF TRUTH .- FILTHY HABITS .- DISEASES AN] LEPROSY.

There are grave objections to the Chinese as settlers or as residents il large numbers, which, apart from the question of competition with whit labor, ought to be seriously considered. Prominent among those objec tions is the undoubted existence among the Chinese of secret organiza tions, enabling them to act as compact bodies in any community wher they may be, facilitating the evasion of local laws and the concealment o crime. This constitutes a dangerous feature in the administration o justice where their personal interests are involved; our utter ignoranc of their language and modes of thought placing the officers of justice in the power of interpreters, whose veracity is doubtful, and whose integrity

Secret Organiza- tion.

Ignorance of there language and mode hought.

there are no means of testing. The power and extent of these secret Power of secret organizations enable them to command a simultaneity of action through- organization. out extended districts, and to inflict serious injury upon a community, while themselves not overtly violating any law so as to incur punishment. This was shown by extraordinary combinations in our Eastern possessions in 1856. And still later, to a small degree by the Chinese strike in Victoria in 1877, at the attempted enforcement of an unconstitutional Act passed by the Local Legislature directed against them.

Combinalion in the East and at Victoria. See Tai Sing vs. McGuire, Judgt. Sup. Court of British Columbia,

They are so entirely ignorant, so incapable of understanding our system Sept. 1378. of government that they are naturally suspicious, and resort to this mode of protecting themselves when it is not required. Dangerous as is this element in their character, there is another which is worse, that is their disregard of truth where their feelings or passions are involved ; and par- Want of Truth. ticularly in charges of a criminal nature, they care not what pain they inflict, or what they endure, so as their end be obtained. A striking illustration of this occurred on a criminal trial in the Supreme Court of British Columbia at the assizes in Victoria, a few years since. Some time previously a Chinaman had been found severely injured and beaten on one of the sidewalks of the city. He accused two other Chinamen of the Chinese self- infliction. offence, who were arrested, indicted and tried under the statnte for inflict- ing grevious bodily harm, and by means of his evidence convicted and sent to the Penitentiary. The friends of the two convicts thereupon had the prosecutor indicted for perjury. On his trial for that offence the contention was that he had inflicted the injury upon himself, and had falsely charged the two Chinamen with doing it, in order that he might be avenged upon them for a former quarrel. A Chinese witness Illustration. had sworn strongly to this effect. The learned Judge remarked : "It was difficult to believe a man would so severely injure himself, merely to have another punished." When the witness was leaving the stand he quietly drew a razor from his pocket, and in a moment slashed open his own head from back to front, leaving a great broad gash of five or six inches through his shaven crown from which the blood poured in a stream. The inter- preter explained, that this was to convince the Court that a Chinaman did not mind what pain he inflicted on himself if he could have another punished on whom he had a wrong to avenge. When both parties are ready to go to that length, it is difficult in the adminstration of justice to know which to believe.

These two features of the Chinese character and habits are so objection- Objectionable. able that the utmost care is required to obviate the consequence. No doubt, this want of truth renders unsatisfactory the administration cf justice in all matters of a criminal nature affecting them, while the know- ledge that such power of combination exists creates a sense of insecurity, particularly as to the permanency of engagements for domestic service or the privacy of the household.

There is one thing, however, always to be remembered in dealing with natives of foreign countries ; allowance must be made for different moral Allowance for difa- standards, dissimilar modes of thought and habits, entirely at variance ferent moral standards. with those to which we have been trained, The Christian religion, the institutions of the middle ages, the habits of freedom, the moral tone of the European races of the highest class, have tended to make truth an essential element in the characteristics of their people and descendants- recognized in the codes of society, in the rules of law, in the dealings of man with man and nation with nation. It is not so with the Asiatics : With them an adherence to truth, as we call it, is simply an admission of weakness. Whatever contributes to immediate success in the object they

desire to obtain, is sanctioned as belonging to superior intelligence. Dupli- city and capacity to deceive are of higher value than truth. In this respect, therefore, the Chinese do not differ from the rest of the people of the continent to which they belong-truth with them is the evidence of a weaker race ; but admitting all this, the strong common sense of the European races and their descendants, points out, that that deficiency is no reason why dealings should not be had with Asiatics, when the interests of humanity or the extension of commerce will be promoted thereby, and assuming from all the circumstances attending their presence in British Columbia, that the benefit to the Province exceeds the detriment, then the remedy for the two evils referred to, may be found in the course pur- sued in China, at the time of the occupation of Canton, in 1856, by the British forces, nnder the embassy of Lord Elgin and in some preliminary observations made by his secretary, Mr. Oliphant, in his narrative of the expedition, in which the secret organizations are more particularly referred to :

" At present, there is a population of 70,000 Chinamen in Singapore, and not a single European who nnderstands the language ; the consequence is, that in the absence of any competent interpreter they are generally ignorant of the designs of the Government, and regarding themselves still as Chinese subjects are apt to place themselves in an antagonistic attitude whenever laws are passed affecting their peculiar customs. No effort is made to overcome a certain exclusiveness arising hence, and this is fost- ered by the secret societies which exercise an important influence upon the minds of all, but more particularly the ignorant portion of the popu- lation. Were Chinese themselves put into positions of authority under the Government and allowed to share to some extent in the duties and responsibilities of British citizens, which, intellectually speaking, they are quite competent to undertake, the barrier which now exists between the two races would be partially removed, and the mutual distrust and suspi- cion engendered by our present system would in all probability quickly disappear. Nor is this mere speculation. We have, fortunately, in their own Empire a perpetual proof before our eyes of that reverence for authority, when judiciously enforced, which is one of thir chief character- istics, and which has for so many centuries been the preservation of its union and one of the great sources of its prosperity."

" Manilla, like Singapore, owes a great part of its prosperity to the Chi- nese portion of its population, and in our management of this race in our possessions, it might not be unprofitable to investigate the expediency of some of those measures, which other nations inferior to us in the art of colonization, as a rule, have found it necessary to employ. All the Chi- nese arriving at Manilla are registered and taxed according to their occu- pations. They are divided into four classes : merchants, shop-keepers, artisans and day-laborers."

The entire Chinese population has been estimated as high as 30,000, but, according to a Spanish author writing in 1842, the number actually enrolled does not exceed 6,000, and their capitation-tax is about $100,000 a year, while that of all the native inhabitants, exceeding 3,000,000, does not equal eight times that amount. This taxation is manifestly excessive, and no good object could be obtained by drawing any distinction in our own possessions beween Chinese and British subjects, but the election of a captain by themselves, whose office is to collect the tribute and arrange all internal differences, and who is to a certain extent responsible for the good conduct of his countrymen, is an excellent arrangement. At the same time that the captain is elected, his lieutenant and head constable

are also chosen by the Chinese. Were we to establish a good system of responsible government among our Chinese populations and employ a sufficient staff of interpreters, we should be relieved from apprehensions on their account, and they from the dread of the consequences with which we are apt to visit them under the influence of that apprehension."

The exemplification of these views was carried out after the capture Oliphant, 169. and during the occupation of Canton, At page 169, he says :

" During the first week of occupation, bodies of men were marched Sussessful result through the different quarters of the city as patrols, it was found, how- of Conjoint ever, that this served rather to alarm than to re-assure the population, system. while a lawless rabble following close in rear took advantage of the con- fusion created, to shoplift with a dexterity worthy of the swell mob. An allied police was, therefore, substituted for these patrols, composed partly of Chinese and partly of English or French. Natives and foreigners were alike amused to observe a file of marines walking amicably side by side, the one headed by a sergeant and the other by a petty Mandarin gracefully fanning himself. This scheme proved eminently successful. European offenders were brought up and punished by the tribunal, While " Pehkwei " bastinadoed his own countrymen with an unsparing vehemence to prove his desire of cordial co-operation. As in the course of his explorations, Mr. Parkes discovered some proclamations intended to inflame the population against the foreigners, which evil disposed per- sons were beginning to post up extensively ; Pehkwei was ordered to issue notices to the headmen of the districts making them responsible for insulting or incendiary proclamations. The system of responsibility thus introduced is thoroughly in accordance with the Chinese plan of govern- ment. It was that pursued in the government of Canton with perfect success ; it served the two-fold purpose of keeping Pehkwei constantly in check and of proving to the inhabitants the absolute supremacy of our power,"

We thus have the principles defined and the proof of its success-a Conjoint tribunal system of conjoint supervision creating both confidence and supremacy in and authority. the dominant power, and responsibility on the part of those who are gov- erned. It ensures to the Chinaman a conviction that his case is thorougly understood-that his wants, his feelings, his position, will be explained by those who from their mastery of his language, and their knowledge of his customs, are thoroughly competent to do so : while it affords to the Local Authorities, a certainty that their views and objects in any contemplated movement, in the enforcement of any local law, or the Advantages of. carrying out of any sanitary arrangement, will not be misunderstood, and in consequence erroneously resisted or evaded. The details of a proposi- tion to this effect will hereafter be more fully considered-not only as em- bracing the considerations above mentioned, but as covering the enforce- ment of sanitary regulations-cleanliness of " Chinese quarters " and Comprehensive extent. places of residence-and also as preventing the introduction of paupers- diseased or deformed Chinamen into the Province.

All these matters come clearly within the powers of legislation by pre- vention in the first instance-or in the second bv remedy in the way of proper sanitary and remedial measures, enacted with prudence and en- forced with strictness.

There can be no doubt of the truth of the charge, that about their re Filthy state of sidences and in their mode of living in their own domiciles the habits of residences. the lower classes of the Chinese, as a rule, are most objectionable and filthy. The air is polluted by the disgusting offal with which they are surrounded, and the vile accumulations are apt to spread fever and sick-

ness in the neighborhood, which in the end may effect extensive districts. This is not exceptional as to their habits when abroad, but is equally no- ticeable in all the large towns in China where foreigners or travellers have had opportunities of observation. Among the lower classes also, the most repulsive objects of disease and deformity are sometimes met with. In their own country human life is not regarded, and when the wasted crip- ple or paralytic can no longer help himself, and death is slowly approach- ing, his wretched body, ere life has fled, is thrown out on the dung heap to perish-carion for the crows and dogs.

Oliphant mentions such scenes and instances at Tien-tsin, a city of a million of inhabitants within a hundred miles of Pekin, the capital of the Empire, and similarly have they been noticed in other large cities of China.

In the lowest dens of London, Liverpool and Dublin, in the slums of New York, and the large capitals of Europe equally are to be found the most repulsive objects of disease, and the most degraded and filthy modes of living. Even in our own cities-in Montreal, the most populous and most Christian City of the Dominion-residences for human beings and habits more degrading and filthy are to be found. In the Montreal Daily Witness, of November 14th, will be found in article, " Abodes of Misery," descriptive of habitations, which rival, if they do not surpass any place in the worst of the Chinese quarters in Victoria or San Francisco.

Among the lowest classes of human beings of all the nations of the world, whether Christian or Pagan, the same degradation may be found, and it would be well that the writers who so vehemently attack the Chinese on these grounds would look at home and amend the evil there. The law provides the most ample power for the abatement of such nui- sances, and for the punishment of the offenders, whether they be tenants or owners of the land. The local authorities ought really to be the par- ties attacked for not exercising the powers with which the law clothes them for that purpose, rather than the poor wretched degraded beings, victims of ignorance and years of debauchery, misery and crime, with whom conscience is extinct, and virtue and shame unknown.

Non existence in In British Columbia there has never been a density of population, or British Columbia. pauperism sufficient to render such scenes possible among the whites, and it is, therefore, that the mere probability of their approach is regarded with such justifiable horror.

In Canada they can be prevented under effective existing legislation, without expense to the Government of the Dominion ; and so far as the Chinese are concerned, their obedience and submission to authority, the peculiar characteristic of the people of their country, resulting from the long training, and despotic nature of their Government, its assumed divine origin, and absolute arbitrary will, render the carrying out of measures by the local authorities to that end, a remedy of simple means.

It is difficult to conceive upon what principle such charges are made. Where the local authorities have power to remove or abate the evil, it is a waste of time to abuse it. Where they can punish the offender, and do not, it is a premium to offend. Mr. Bloomfield the Superintendant of Police in Victoria in his evidence says : "I have known instances when buildings and their owners have been presented to the Grand Jury as nuisances and no action been taken." There is no question, that the " Chinese quarters " are the filthiest and most disgusting places in Victoria, overcrowded hotbeds of disease and vice, disseminating fever and polluting the air all around. Then why allowed so to remain ? It is not the fault of the Chinese so much as of those who can and do not prevent it.

It is reflecting upon the administration of the law and its executive machinery to permit the public health to be so endangered. It cannot be presumed that the owners of such habitations or places can have the influence, or would desire, to thwart the Authorities in doing what the public interests require, nor that there can be an object in nursing the evil rather than removing it.

In argument, however, it forms no more ground for expelling the Chinese than it would for expelling any other class of dirty people, or for legislating against any other race, white or black, amongst whom certain Black or white. bad or objectionable classes were found. Proceed against the offender, whether he be black or white, but do not confound the innocent with the guilty.

In connection with the matters refered to in this chapter and in con- Leprosy. nection with this phase of the question comes up the oft repeated charge of leprosy and "Leprous race."

On this point it may be said that particular and searching inquiry was made by the Commissioners. Dr. Helmcken, one of the oldest and most Dr Helmcken. eminent physicians in the Province, who was there long before the advent of the Chinese, after remarking that the Chinese came to the country about fourteen or eighteen years ago, says : " I have never seen more than two cases of leprosy since I have been in the country, one an Indian Leprosy. before the Chinese arrived, and one about eight or ten years ago-this a Chinaman. With regard to the man in the prison mentioned by Sergeant Bloomfield, he came into the prison for stealing, I think, and after he arrived in the prison, the question arose as to his being a leper and that he be liberated ; and I said the Chinese doctors had better see him as they were acquainted with the disease, and after doing so they said he had the leprosy, giving a certificate to that effect, and upon that certificate the man was kept in prison after his sentence had expired. He was after- wards liberated. The same man, I am informed this morning, has just been brought into prison again, not on account of leprosy but for stealing. According to the best medical authorities, leprosy is not considered a contagious or infectious disease. To-day it exists in Norway and Sweden, and also in the Mediterranean countries. I do not know that it is necessary a leper should be locked up. Leprosy is incurable, and persons so affected are usually put in some place for incurable diseases. The disease may go on for years. In the Sandwich Islands lepers are separated from the healthy. The peculiar indications of leprosy vary-in one affect- ing the skin, another the nervous system. The skin kind is more like syphilis. It is more or less hereditary ; and in some families, there might be a leper. People residing and cohabiting with them do not take the disease. I cannot tell you whether it has been found the same in Austra- lia, as I have no reliable information. I do not know of a single white person having leprosy in this country, only having known two cases of leprosy, as I said before, one an Indian leper, which was before the Chinese arrived, and a Chinaman. The Indian, therefore, did not contract it from the Chinese. Leprosy is not only found amongst the Chinese, but affects the whole of humanity. It has, however, dissappeared from Europe, except Norway and Sweden, Finland, and the Mediterranean. There are more cases in China and the East ; it seems to appertain to hot countries chiefly, and marshy places. I do not think the cause of the disease is known. Of course, now a days it is a " Bacillus." If there was a case of leprosy in Victoria now, it would be the duty of the police to report the same to the city authorities the same as a case of small-pox. I have been the visiting surgeon of the jail ever since it was built-from the time I

5

came to the country. This appointment is under the local government. There may have been cases of leprosy amongst the Chinese, they not letting any one know about it ; but I do not think so, for this reason : that the Chinese are afraid of it themselves. They would evidently shun them and so make them marked. On the general health condition of the Chi- nese in Victoria, I cannot speak authoritatively on this subject, for the reason they do not speak English, so we are not called upon to attend them when sick ; but I think the health of the Chinese is as good as the whites, according to the death-rate, though I do not know the exact number of Chinese residents here.

Dr. McInness whose testimony is strong against the Chinese, on this point says :

" I have never seen a case of leprosy among them. I believe there are some cases of leprosy among them, but I have not seen one."

Dr. Stevenson, a practising physician of Victoria and a member of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario, who states that he has had twenty-two years experience on the Pacific coast, and is familiar with the history of the Chinese in the Pacific States and territories of the United States, says that the disease is not contagious, and that up to 1882, no case of leprosy had occured among the whites, though during the ten preceding years fifty-two had been known among the Chinese in California, and he regards the sanitary objections against the Chinese as baseless.

Thus, therefore, from the medical testimony, during the whole period the Chinese have been in British Columbia we find but one case of leprosy among them, and that eight or ten years ago. We further find that unusual as the disease is, there was a case of it in British Columbia before the Chinese came, and we know as a matter of Canadian history that it was known in New Brunswick fifty years ago, and that there was an Establishment at Tracadie in that Province where the lepers were kept, that it never spread or was communicated to any one, and that there never has been the slightest fear of its dissemination among the people of that Province, nor is there at this moment any fear of its dissemination in British Columbia. There can be no doubt, if one of the Chinese so diseased were found, he or she would be immediately separated from the rest of the community as in cases of small-pox.

Proper sanitary regulations can always obviate danger from such sources.

CHAPTER 7.

COMPETITION WITH WHITE LABOR .- DOMESTIC SERVICE AND SLAVERY.

But all these questions are more or less aside of the main issue. We must come in a practical sense to the most important subject submitted for consideration by this enquiry, namely, the effect upon the country --- past, present and future, of the competition with white labor created or likely to be created by the influx of Chinese into the country. This is to be governed by a calm and business-like consideration of the circumstances of the country, and not alone by abstract theories or race prejudices. The medicine that suits one man may not suit another. On this point it is but right to quote again from the writer already referred to. At page 80, Vol. I., Oliphant, after strongly recommending the introduction of Chinese labor into the Eastern possessions of the Empire, says :

" It is not, however, merely in the settlement of the Malay Archipelago

to which Chinese immigration might be directed and encouraged by Gov- ernment with great advantage, but to many tropical colonies in other parts of the world-where there is an enormous capacity of production coupled with an utter inadequacy of means. We must be careful of judging of the results of Chinese immigration by the experiences of California, Australia, or any other Colony where peculiar conditions resulting from gold discoveries exist, and where the climate admits of competition by whites. It is as undesirable that such a competition should be established in those countries adapted for European out door labor, as that others should be deprived of the benefit of any such labor at all because the climate is fatal to the white man."

This sounds the key-note of the question. Oliphant's work was published in 1859, we have therefore the additional experience of 25 years.

On both points submitted in the heading of this chapter, what does that experience prove in relation to British Columbia and Canada ? Extent of British In the first place as to British Columbia, we have a Province " where there Columbia. is an enormous capacity of production coupled with an utter inadequacy of means. " It covers habitable square .or parallelogram, more than 1,200 miles in one direction by 500 in another from South to North, from West to East, larger than Great Britain and Ireland, larger than France, equal in extent to the German Empire, or coming nearer home, twice and a half as large as Ontario and closely doubling on Quebec. It has an assumed a population of 60,000 inhabitants located in a few towns and scattered along the margins of the rivers and the forests. It contains in round numbers -- 219,000,000 acres,* which would give a pre-emption lot of 160 acres-to 1,368,759 people-or at its present assumed rate of popu- lation of 60,000-3,650 acres for every man, woman and child in town and country-including Indians, Chinese and all other Nationalities. Its great internal area capable of unlimited development is almost unutilized, save for the roaming of wild cattle, or the natural growth of the timber. What is wanted is population-tillers of the soil, manufacturers, settlers, Its interest traders, laborers, mental and manual, merchants, capitalists, who will unutilized. make its rich resources conducive to the comforts of life. The returns of the Collector of Customs for British Columbia show that with all the known natural resources of coal mines, gold mines, fisheries, lumber, as well as railway works and other inducements, there only came into the Province, including passengers, men, women and children business and private, public and official during the four most attractive years from the construction of great public works, 27,256 white persons, and during eight years, including the same period, 18,000 Chinamen. How many of these returned or left the Province is not shown. At that rate, which would give a yearly average of 5,657 immigrants, it would take over 240 years to reach a population of 1,368,750-allowing the births, death rates and out- goers to neutralize each other ; but an immigration to that extent cannot be reasonably expected, when the demand for labor by the completion of the railway will, to a large extent, have ceased. With all the great Northwest from Lake Superior to the Rocky Mountains open to settlement and cultivation- with all the immense Territories of the United States. bidding for the comers from Europe and the British Isles, British Columbia need not fear being over-run for many a day. The question therefore is, shall the development which is attainable be rejected because it cannot be by the particular means most desired ?

* The British Columbia pamphlet, "Information for Immigrants, 1883, gives the area of the Province at 350,000 square miles, which multiplied by 640 acres to the square mile would be 224,000,090 acres.

On this point the observations of Mr. Brooks, of San Francisco, one of the ablest Oriental scholars, and from an experience of many years thor- oughly acquaited with the subject of Chinese immigration into the United States, are singularly applicable. In his evidence at San Francisco (page 30) he says:

" The early immigration came to supplement rather than to supplant our laborers. When it came it was very much needed ;- with the gradual filling up of California, it is now clained that we do not need it and that any renewal of Chinese immigration would tend to lower the standard of wages obtained by American laborers. It is the pride of the United States that they are enabled to pay higher wages for labor-through the great bounty of Nature and their great territorial advantages and natural wealth --- than any other country in the world. Thus the laborer is enabled to educate his family and acquire more home comforts. He is, in fact, raised to a higher condition of existence than is possible under the cheap labor of Europe. The same thing applies to Canada exactly. If the Chinese coming into the country are limited in number to the actual requirements of a new country, and are able to command wages equally with American labor, the only question then involved would be, whether their presence would crowd out a corresponding amount of home labor ? With the enormous territory of the United States at present unoccupied, and only waiting labor to develop its resources, this can hardly be urged as an objection at present. But the presence of too many Chinese, especially if they attempt an internal self-government-imperium in imperio-by which they farm out fishing grounds and district the city for wash-houses, forming combinations and interfering with avenues of labor needed for the proper support of our own people, their presence is objectionable. All civilized Nations have proclaimed against exclusiveness, and mixture seems to be an element in progress ; but, as every home has a right to protect itself, socially, morally and industrially, against all outside interference, so a Nation through its Government, is bound to protect all proper industries in pro- cess of development within its territory. Conditions may exist where the accession of Chinese aid in the labor market may protect and also increase the American labor required, our people becoming directors, and the mere menial duties necessary to existence may be performed by laborers with less intelligence. We often blame the Chinese as a whole for the errors and faults of an individual."

Evidence in B. C. From the evidence adduced before the Commissioners, the competition of the Chinese with white labor in British Columbia has only been with labor of the lowest kind. It has not interfered with the mechanic or skilled labor. The carpenter, the foundry-man, the gas-fitter, the mason, Non interference with skilled labor. the cabinet-maker, the wharfinger, the glazier, the painter, the carriage- maker, boat-builders, shipwrights, and all industries requiring skill, intel- ligence and steady industry, pursue their different vocations and are car- ried on without rivalry or competition from the Chinese.

All those pursuits which pertain to the higher order of intellectual and physical labor, which raise the white man in the scale of life, and enable him to bring up his family to take the highest positions in the land are untouched by the Chinese ; but to dig a ditch, shovel earth, cut wood and wash clothes, which white men who can get anything else to do will not do this labor is left to the Chinamen, and for such purposes affords to the industrious mechanic an opportunity of getting done at a price within his command, work on which his own time is too valuable to be employed. A careful consideration of the evidence shows this to be

the case. It is fortunate that, in a young and sparsely settled Province, this cheap labor can be obtained, for it enables those whose minds are capable of higher development, and whose ambition looks to more en- nobling industry-to follow pursuits in which they will rise-rather than toil and slave in grovelling work, which wears out the body without elevating the mind.

But it does more. It enables the capitalist to bring money into the Capital. country with the prospect of benefitting by its investment, while the ex- penditure benefits the country by the development of its resources. This is not a question between labor and capital. In British Columbia there is neither the one nor the other, at all proportionate to its extent of terri- tory. It is a question of bringing in both. The labor would be of no use without the capital, and centuries would pass if left to labor alone before the Province would be developed or settled to the extent of even the smallest of the German States. Capital is as much required as labor, but what capitalist will bring money into the country, if the price of labor is so high that he cannot expend it with the prospect of some advantage to himself. The evidence shows most distinctly that the price of white labor of the lowest kind is at such a figure that he cannot use his capital to advantage and with safety, while with the prices charged by the Chinese for similar labor, he can. It has been shown by facts and reasoning that the fear of Chinese competition has not deterred bond fiide industrious white settlers from coming into the Province, and the instance given in the evidence of the Chief Justice of British Columbia, one of the oldest residents of the Province, is conclusive, that with steadiness, frugality and sobriety-a common workman in the coal mines-in the course of the Successful result ordinary number of working years can not only make a comfortable living industry. of steady for himself and family, but lay by an ample competence for his declining years. This is not a solitary instance. Mr. Robins, the manager of the Vancouver Coal Company, says : "white people can now find remunera- tive employment. In fact wages are high enough to attract the best class of white labor." It may be safely affirmed, such are the resources and varied opportunities of industry in British Columbia-that no instance No instance sf can be named-where a laboring man with health-steady industy and failure ef a steady sobriety, has ever failed to make a comfortable living, unless disabled by sober working man. some unforeseen misfortune .- Many by good luck succeed though they may not be frugal or sober-many become dissatisfied because they cannot become wealthy in a few years. Some think they ought to be special favorites of Providence and wait until something turns up; but Chinese or no Chinese, in the country or out of it, an instance cannot be named, where a sober, industrious, frugal and ordinarily sensible laboring man has Plain speaking. ever failed to make a comfortable living in British Columbia. The question has now been brought to a point, where it is necessary to lay before the Parliament and country the facts without reference to persons or parties.

It is something strange to hear the strong broad-shouldered superior race, superior physically and mentally, sprung from the highest types of the old and the new world, expressing a fear of competition, with a small, inferior, and comparatively speaking, feminine race.

When France or England has any special object to gain, nothing is Superiority of thought of crossing many thousand miles of intervening Ocean, entering white race. the densely populated land of China with all its ancient civilization, and with a few hundred men by means of modern science defeating the Chi- nese in countless numbers, taking what either Nation desires, and against their will, insisting that your people shall go into their country whenever it pleases or suits-but if they the Chinese come over to your country in

the peaceful pursuit of trade or industry-they must be driven back- because they are more sober, more frugal, and in the humblest calling of labor work a little harder than others feel inclined to. The rule should work both ways. Let the English people leave them alone and they will leave the English people alone.

But it is to the evidence we must again turn. Throughout the whole of it there is not a witness, with one or two exceptions, who does not say that in the first instance their presence was essentially necessary and beneficial to the Province, that up to the present time there are not too many, and that it would not be desirable that those who are in the Pro- vince should be driven out, but that there should be some regulation for the future to prevent too great an influx.

The argument that their presence cheapens labor, to the detriment of the white man, is simply the argument that has been used against every labor-saving machine, and every improvement that science has ever made, tending to the advancement of the human race. The grass cutting, reap- ing, sowing, and planting machines interfered with, the labor of hundreds of laboring men in every agricultural country where they were introduced ; the steamers with sailors, the railroads and cattle cars with horses and drivers, stage coaches and posters, machinery in mills and factories with hand labor. The telegraphs and phonograps with post boys and messengers. Who now proposes to do without these scientific aids ?

The Chinese in British Columbia as affecting the rapid development of the country are living machines differing from artificial and inanimate machinery in this, that while working and conducing to the same end with the latter, they are consuming the productions and manufactures of the country, contributing to its revenue and trade, and at the same time expanding and developing its resources.

Year by year in America the opening of new districts is affording room for unlimited numbers of settlers. Canada has but five millions of in- habitants from Ocean to Ocean, yet in the North-West Territories and British Columbia alone there is room for fifty millions, and the Chinese in the country it is contended, are simply clearing the ground for their advent. It is difficult to believe that the white race in America can be stayed by such a class, or need protection.

As to the competition of the Chinese with white labor in British Colum- bia it may readily be shown that the main obstruction to the steady employment of the latter lies with the white laborers themselves, and is in some degree owing to habits and ideas implanted in the country by the early comers of 1858. With the admitted and undoubted preference for white labor throughout the whole country, there must be a good cause why it does not command the market. That cause is found in the high rate of wages demanded for a day's unskilled labor. The employer cannot- afford to pay it and live. The great mass of the people in British Colum- bia are workingmen -- mechanics, parties commencing with small capital, shopkeepers, traders, and strugglers in various industries requiring skill and knowledge. Their wages as mechanics, and for ordinary skilled labor range from $3.50 to $4.50 per day, dependant as in all such cases upon personal superiority. There are not many capitalists-in fact, very few. The laboring man with steady, continuous employment on railways, corporation work and in the mines gets $2 per day ; for occasional jobs he asks $2.50 per day. The latter is what is mostly in demand with the mechanics and others above-mentioned. If they cannot gettheir little plots of ground dug or their wood cut at less than $2.50 per day, that sum absorbs more than half of their own earnings. They must, therefore,

necessarily look for something cheaper, and thus the Chinese are employed, because their remuneration is within reach and leaves some- thing of the day's work for the mechanic himself. This costly idea of remuneration for ordinary unskilled labor results from the ease with which gold was found on the first settlement of the Province. The extravagant Extravagant ideas then engendered still continue. At this moment there is not in ideas. circulation in the country a coin less than a ten cent piece. The Banks had to return the five-cent pieces sent out by the Dominion Government for circulation, because the business portion of the community would not use them and declined the reception of a coin so small. The remu- neration for the commonest services is three and four times what is paid for similar services in theEastern Provinces.

The following extract is from a correspondence published in one of the Victoria papers under date of the 14th November 1884 from a new settler, Settler's letter. addressed to a friend in Ontario : " Our money is quite different from yours, we use "bits " when you would use cents. If you are buying ten cents worth of anything and give twenty-five cents you will only receive ten cents back, no five cent bit, being in circulation. Money is no consi- deration here. They think no more of changing a twenty dollar gold piece than you would a five dollar bill. Nearly all gold and silver is used here, altogether this is a most delightful place, the climate all that could be desired, and knowing that relatives from whom I am separated are in good health, I can feel happy and contented in my new home."

Senator MacDonald in his evidence before the Committee of the House Senator Mac of Commons in 1879, after stating that Chinamen would not work at less donald. than $1.25 per day says : "White labor can I fancy be got for $2 a day. I know I have offered $1.50 a day, and they have declined it and conse- quently I have thus been forced to employ Chinamen at a low rate of wages. Instead of employing white men at $2.25 a day, I have employed Chinamen at $1.25. It costs a white man to live about fifty cents a day, a Chinamen about half that sum ; white labor must come down in price. That is a matter which at any rate must be brought about. It is impossible to carry on any kind of work either in connection with farming or manufacturing at the present rate of wages in our Province, the price of white labor must come down in order to enable us to carry on any work successfully."

Matters of this nature seem small to be mentioned in a report on the subject under consideration, but in social questions and in view of sump- tuary legislation thereon, they are necessary to a thorough understanding. In most young countries when the struggle of first settlement is going on, there is not much money, prices and wages rule low, and increase with the increase of the country, and the means of payment. That is healthly and Gold. normal, but the first days of British Columbia were days of wealth-gold was abundant-prices were high, and wages in proportion. In a pecuniary sense as affecting the permanent common weal, its state was unhealthy and abnormal. Reckless indifference to expenditure and habits of extra- vagance were formed which did not change when the circumstances of the country changed, and to this day the laborer thinks the same scale for payment should continue, though the employer has not the same means for payment. Men are not now taking out gold as they did, and the laborer must prepare as in other countries, to work a little more continu- ously and not expect to become immediately wealthy. The evidence and the official Returns show that this Chinese competition is not with skilled labor or with agricultural settlers, or persons intending to become perma- nent residents in the country, but with migratory transitory laborers, who

Social and sump- tuary legislation.

Competition with migratory laborers.

may or may not become settlers, dependant upon ulterior circumstances.

This fact must be borne in mind in order to have a thorough comprehen- sion of this phase of the question, because Mr. Robin's testimony shows there is now in this Province ample opportunity for white laborers at remu- nerative wages, if they choose to avail themselves of it. An absolute monopoly of the labor market, or a power to control and dictate the rate of wages, would be, (as an absolute power in any other of the busi- ness relations of life) most injurious to the general welfare.

The extraordinary length, to which the majority of the Local Legislature and some of the inhabitants of British Columbia, have been prepared to go in consequence of this Chinese antipathy, will be seen from an examination of the Local Act, and the circumstances shown in the judgment of the Supreme Court of British Columbia in the case of Tai Sing vs. McGuire, delivered September 23rd, 1878. Laying aside all that part of the decision which declared the Local Act to be ultra vires as affecting trade and com- merce, examine its enactments with reference to the white inhabitants themselves, and observe how, if they employ Chinamen, it substitutes. the innocent for the guilty and punishes the farmer, the merchant or the trader, for offences, and violations of the Act to which they are not only no parties, but of which they must be in entire ignorance. Such Legis- lation would hardly be tolerated anywhere among a free people, nor in any country where fanaticism had not usurped the place of reason. It . was that Act which led to the Chinese strike in Victoria, in 1878, and was disallowed by the Dominion Government as soon as attention was by this judgment called to its provisions.

Sound policy, thererore, will regulate the coming of the Chinese, not stop it, any more than a clear headed sensible farmer would dry up a river, because it may sometimes overflow its banks, and perchance create temporary derangement in the lands through which it flows, but which, when properly restrained, its waters irrigate and enrich.

There can be no difficulty in enacting laws based on sound economical and commercial principles, regulating the immigration of Chinese and, indeed, of all other labor coming into the country, without interfering with that inducement to healthy immigration which Canada so essentially wants, but this Commission has to deal with the Chinese only, and even though the danger arising from their coming be imaginary, (if not ques- tionable), it would be satisfactory that there should be a limited restraint ; for there still exists, and will always exist the objection, that there is no homogeneity of race between them and ourselves, nor can they compre- hend or assimilate themselves to our institutions. The nature and extent of such regulations will be hereafter considered, but we can approach their consideration relieved from the prejudice that would have been created, had the evidence, as to the past and present consequences, of their being in the country, shown that such presence had operated to its disadvantage.

Before, however, the latter measures are discussed, in order to their better understanding, we must consider the question of domestic service.

Without the Chinese in British Columbia, there would have been no domestic service at all. There were no persons, to be servants. The fallacy that has pervaded the whole discussion in British Columbia is the assump- tion, that manual and bodily labor, digging and delving, is the only labor in the world, and that no persons were to be considered in this matter, save the diggers and the delvers. The man who toils with his brain, to unfold the mysteries of nature, to develop the field of scientific enquiry, to add to the humanities of life and ennoble the daily discharge of duty, is as great a benefactor of his race and as much deserving of consideration

as the man who works with his hands or in the ordinary paths of labor. The gradations of labor are simply the dispensations of Providence, by which the highest good can be obtained for mankind, and he who com- mences on the lowest rung of the ladder frequently attains the highest. The two kinds, while in progress cannot always be combined, though very exceptional cases, such as Hugh Millers have shewn they may be, but as an ordinary rule, they are essential to each other, and work together for the common good, each during that progress in its relative position.

Service, servitude, or help by which-ever name it may be called is Service or absolutely necessary for the comfort of domestic life. Can that be obtained servitude. in British Columbia without the Chinese in the present state of this Pro- vince ? It may safely be affirmed it cannot be, nor for very many years to come, in reality until a density of population there exists, which no man of the present day will live to see.

In the first place, the Institutions of the Province are against it-the Institutions and teachings of the public schools are against it; the whole feeling of the country against. education of people is against it ; the silent protest of facts is against it; the unspoken language of every white father and mother in the country is against it ; their children are not meant to be servants. They are on equal terms by birth and right of heritage with the first in the land, and however humble they may be, however poor in circumstances, they will toil and labor at the hardest work but never stand the lacquey or menial of those who are better off. The system of free education supported by public taxation is antagonistic to inferiority of social position. From the hour that a boy or girl enters the public school they are taught that the education so free- ly given at the public expense, is to raise them to the level of the highest, and that there is no position in the Province to which, under the constitu- tion they may not aspire. In fact they are taught to work up-and it is Free education. "well for the country it should be so. It ensures throughout the country a higher order of intellect, a loftier tone of thought, and a fitter class of people for self Government-it carries the country onward-but it kills domestic or menial service. As, however domestic service is a necessity, if the people of the country are of too high a grade for it, a substitute must be found where best it can be.

Incoming immigration will not supply the want. If the immigrant is a desirable one, the first thing he does is to assimilate himself to the institu- tions and feelings of the country. After living in the Province two or Assimilation of three years, he will not admit his children to be inferior to those of the Immigrants. incoming other residents. They are equally entitled to the education and training of the public schools ; and the seed sewn in the young and virgin soil will be the more vigorous because different perhaps from that received by the parents in the old country.

The declaration of American Independence a hundred years ago, struck, the death blow in America to menial service. The very word servant became obnoxious and "help " was substituted for it. The feeling against it has strengthened and spread every hour. It has extended to British North America, and will be found in a more or less degree in every one of the English speaking Provinces.

It may not be to the same extent in the Province of Quebec, because Quebec. the Roman Catholic Bishops and clergy, and their schools, impress upon their scholars respect and obedience to their superiors and those in authority, both lay and clerical-and to look for some portion of their reward in the world to come. No such idea is taught in the public schools paid and supported by public taxation. Equality, worldly success, per- sonal ambition, are alike impressed upon boys and girls, and success at the

American Revo- lution.

Public schools supported by Public Taxation.

schools is held as the augury of success in the struggle of life. Such is the end of modern national education supported by the public purse, and among the boys and girls of the white families it puts an end to the pros- pect of supply from thence for domestic or menial services.

To the careful observer of human progress, it is plain that an entire Change. change is taking place. Education is producing its effect upon the masses of mankind, even more rapidly than the clearing and cultivation of the soil does upon the productive forces of nature. The relative position of Female education. the human race is changing-half a century ago, female education was limited to the attainment of the arts and culture, which tend to adorn and refine society. Now, it embraces the practical operations of life- the universities, the professions, the political privileges and powers, which were hitherto claimed and enjoyed by men alone, are now participated in Political pri- vileges. and shared by women of mind and intelligence. The rights of property, of representation, of influence, of power, of business pursuits and the various industries and callings are theirs as well as ours. Talent belongs to no particular class. It is found in the humblest ranks of life, as in the highest ; and now, that this enlarged field is open to their command, can it be supposed they will be content with the position of inferiority hitherto assigned them. Female menial service, to any extent, will soon be prac- tically annihilated among the white women of America. A marked dis- tinction must be drawn between the overcrowded populations of Europe and Asia, where old customs, associations, and the habits of centuries, have engrained certain fixed modes of thought-and the free and ever changing attitudes of society in America. In this mental characteristic, Canada, as a nation, must be regarded as entertaining American ideas and modes of thought, however much it may differ in its view of constitu- tional government. Indeed, it is questionable how far these same ideas are not at this moment influencing the course of public opinion in England . and the advanced nations of Europe. It is possible, many believe most probable, that within fifty years, certainly within one hundred, all heredi- tary distinctions of persons and rights will be abolished in England, and republican equality prevail, though, perhaps, under different designation and terms. It is barely forty years since the " Russel Purge " was applied to British North America-look at the difference between now and then, in social as well as in political life. This is putting the case fairly, and for the purposes of Parliamentary legislation, the only way to put it. It is not, what we may wish or not wish, what we may approve or not approve, but what is the tendency of public thought. What does the history of the last one hundred years prove.

Female menial service.

Fortunate for British Columbia.

The public man who announces as his policy that the white children of this Dominion-whether natives or immigrants-are to be brought up to- fill the places of menial servants, will be driven from the hustings with ignominy.

It cannot, therefore, be regarded as injurious to British Columbia, that without violating the feelings and principles of a self educating people, she has hitherto been able to obtain for this purpose-a class peculiarly adapted to this end, and leave to her own rising generation the pursuits of a higher and nobler character.

Parents duty.

The evidence, of the peculiar adaptability of the Chinese for this pur- pose is so cumulative that it becomes monotonous. Not an instance has been shown of their tampering with the morality of the families with which they have served, which is indeed the main objection that by some parties has been urged.

The duty of a parent is the same whether his servant is white or Chinese.

So thoroughly is this view, with reference to domestic service, in accor- dance with the views and experience of the large cities of Canada-that if it were possible to supply those cities with similar service, with the same facility it can be obtained in British Columbia -it would be regarded as a benefit.

Here also the charge must be considered that the Chinese sent out slavery. to British Columbia and elsewhere for the purposes named, are slaves. This is distinctly and emphatically denied in the document from the Chinese merchants, where it is alleged that slavery does not exist in China-and that no man can be sent out of the country against Does not exist in his will. They are sent by contract of their own will -- just as laborers are China. supplied by engagement with individuals or firms in all parts of the world where extensive public or private works are being carried on -a practice common in England and America, France and Germany, and all civilised nations.

It was done in England during the Crimean War, when Peto Betts and Labor by contract Brassy sent out railway navies by the thousand. Yet no man called common. them slaves. It has been done in the construction of the railway lines in the United States, where no slave exists. And it is done constantly in England, South America, Canada, where parties are sent out under some philanthropic individual, on stipulation that out of the products of their labors the emigrants are to repay the costs of their passages and outfits.

Brooks in his evidence at San Francisco, page 34, says :

" It has always been against the principles of the United States to authorise labor contracts-consequently, any Chinese coming to this country under labor contracts come under contracts that cannot be en- forced after they have landed. Nearly all who have come to the Pacific coast are laborers or coolies, but comparatively few come under labor contracts-in fact no more so than Irishmen came originally to the United States, when railroad companies agreed to employ them in building railroads."

Examine the whole evidence before the Commission, and not one wit- ness has been able, when questioned, to give the slightest ground or reason for the assertion.

But if we turn to the Chinese themselves, not only is there no authority Chinese account for the statement, but it is shewn that the greatest precautions are exer- cised, both for the safety of the Chinese laborer while abroad, and his which they come return to his native land, when the contract has expired, under which he out. was engaged, as also for the compensation he is to pay to the companies or contractors who send him abroad. An intelligent Chinaman resident for many years in Australia and America, and speaking English well, gives the following explanation :--

" China is divided into six districts, one of the companies, each con- trolling a district. The companies representing the districts are Hin-Yun, Hip Wah, Kong Chu-Yong Wah, Sam-Yip, and Hop Tep. In each of the districts the Chief Magistrate issues a proclamation to the effect, that the company (in which ever district it may be) will take charge of Chinamen wishing to go to America and other foreign countries. These companies are private corporations which are authorized to take charge of Chinamen.

of the terms of the contracts under

When they take a Chinaman from his own country they are bound to return him. If they die they are bound to return their bodies. They also look after the welfare of Chinamen when away from their own country. For instance if a Chinaman loses his business or becomes ill, the one of the Six Companies which has been in charge has to see that he is properly cared for. If a Chinaman is murdered, the company offers a reward for the perpetrator of the crime. If a Chinaman is accused the Six Com- panies are bound by their contract with the Chinese Government to expend money for counsel, and see that the accused gets a fair trial.

" Every Chinaman in America pays two and a half per cent. of his earn- ings while there, to the company having him in charge. The agents of the Six Companies are stationed in San Francisco, and when a Chinaman wants to return, he pays his percentage and is given a free ticket home to his own country. He is brought out free by the companies."

This statement explains three things which hitherto have not been understood in British Columbia.

Ist. The reason why the dead bodies of Chinamen are returned to China. It had always been supposed it was from ideal love of the country, or the existence among them of some superstitious belief, that it was essential to their future happiness, whereas, from this statement, it appears that it is simply a Habeas Corpus system provided by the Chinese government in case of laborers going abroad, to show that they have not been and cannot be sold into slavery, the production of the body being the proof.

Secondly. Why their sick and destitute are never a charge upon the country where they go, the terms of incorporation of the companies and the contract with the Government requiring that they should be provided for.

Thirdly. The finding of ample funds for their defence, when accused of crime, there being similar provisions to that end.

Can any similar instance of humane consideration be shewn in any British contract for the care and safety of the emigrants who left the British Isles.

Col. Bee, in his evidence at San Francisco on the 28th July, 1884, before the Commission, gave the following account of the companies, etc. :

"Q. You spoke, Colonel Bee, of the six companies as charitable cor- porations; could you explain to me their organization ?- A. Yes, sir. The Province of Canton is comprised of six divisions-you might say six counties comprise the Province of Canton. The Chinese here organized what is known as the Six Companies, wholly for benevolent purposes. A Chinese immigrant to this conntry, who came from one of these counties in Canton, on his arrival here was met at the steamship landing by the secretary of each of the companies. These secretaries announced that. they were the secretaries of the associations representing each of the separate districts. The Chinese gave their names and were registered as residents of the district. That register is kept at the headquarters of the company. The functions of the Chinese Six Companies are to protect their Chinese fellows in health, and provide them with means to reach the interior ; provide them with medicines and with hospital accommodations in case of sickness, and look after their interests physically, generally. If a Chinaman becomes sick he applies to the agent of the Six Companies, who procures medical aid for him, and puts him in the hospital if he is at a convenient distance. And if he dies that company buries him ; and at

the proper time, at the request of the parents, that company returns his bones to the parents in China. There the functions of the company cease. They have been charged as being immigration agents-importers of Chi- nese labor. I undertake to say the proof cannot be produced in a single case.

Q. Why should these companies take so much interest in the China- man then ?- A. The testimony cannot be produced that one of the Chinese companies brings labor to this country, paying his passage directly or in- directly. It cannot be produced that they have collected a dollar of his wages and appropriated it. It cannot be shown that a dollar has been collected as a fee from him, until his departure from the country. Before departing he goes to his headquarters and settles his fee as a member of the company, the fee ranging from $2.50 to $10. Those companies who represent a district where there are but few immigrants-their fee is $10. Fees. Where there is a large number it is $2.50. That is the fund, and the only fund, they have from them. The interest is no more or less than that exercised by other benevolent societies-Masons, Oddfellows, and Druids.

" Q. You say the testimony cannot be produced ; but the fact may be Immigration out- though the testimony cannot be produced ?A. It cannot be a fact that tions. the Chinese companies ever have brought any immigrants to this country. It is entirely outside of the functions of their organization, and hence a matter in which they have no interest.

"Q. What motive could they have, then, in organizing ?-- A. If you desire to get the reasons of the organization of the Six Companies I can give it.

side of their func-

"Q. Yes ? A. In the early settlement of California by the Americans, Organization of we had in our early days no laws, we might say. We were here in large numbers without courts, without laws, no established government; we were a territorial government for a time. There were no sheriffs, no officers, no courts ; no mail facilities to speak of, except by express ; no mail contracts let by the government. Communication with the interior and the sea- board was very difficult. Americans arriving in the mines, organized associations. For instance, I belonged myself to New-York association ; adjoining me was one called the Palmito association ; another one was a Pike County of Missourians, etc. ; they went by the names of the different states. Each one of those associations kept a book, and all residents of New-York arriving in those diggings would come to this place and register their names, writing where they resided. Once a month, a courier would come around to those different associations, and take all the names off the registers. He would come to San Francisco as courier and get the letters and mail belonging to the subscribers for which he received $1 for letters, and newspapers 50 cents. Mail was delivered and sepa- rated generally in the headquaters of those associations, and the parties who had signed their names came there and got their mail. When a man from New York was taken sick, a notification was sent to the members that he was sick in a certain ravine or canyon. Then a committee was appointed to go and take care of him, and to nurse him and bury him, or procure medical attendance if necessary. Chinese, when they came into the mines, noticed and became familiar with those organizations of the whites, and hence the basis of the six companies. They organized then their six company associations, not organized in San Francisco originally, but in the mines, establishing a headquarters here where their letters

the six companies.

were sent from here to the mines, the same way we were doing it. They have kept up that organization till this day, although all the other asso- ciations fell through when the government machinery was put in work, mails established, officers appointed, and a regular government, and no further necessity for such associations. That was the beginning of the six company associations which does not exist in any other country in the world to which the Chinese immigrate but California.

"Q. You would say that they are survivors of that original ?- A. Yes.

"Q. A statement has been made that these companies try men for offenses, that they in fact make laws of their own, have their own sanc- tions to these laws, and inflict severe punishment, and sometimes have not hesitated to inflict capital punishment; what is your evidence on that head ? A. It is not true. I will state that I know that like ourselves occasionally they have cases for arbitration brought to the attention of the six companies, and they arbitrate or employ arbitrators, and white men are sometimes called in to act with them ; but as to their trying a man for a criminal offense, it is not true, or that they inflict punishment.

"Q. It has been stated, Colonel, that when the Chinese quarrel amongst themselves they are very savage and violent, and use weapons ; what is your evidence on that head? A. In California there are about 1,400 Chinese, according to my estimates, that are irresponsible, vicious, criminal ; who have no occupation. They are known as highbindsrs. Those men are cruel, irresponsible, and of the criminal class ; but take the Chinese character and people as a whole they are not savage or cruel- they are not savage, they are timid. A hoodlum of twelve years of age can drive half a dozen of them from the street. They avoid contact ; they avoid difficulty of that nature, all that is possible. As a class they are not to be judged by the few irresponsible, non-working Chinese high- binders.

"Q. Are those highbinders ever employed by the Six Companies ? A. No. sir; they have no occupation whatever. The Six Companies have no use for that class."

Thus, from all accounts, it is plain that slavery is not an object of the organization of the Six Companies.

The question up to this point has been considered more with reference to British Columbia than to the general bearing it has upon Canada- because in reality-the evil if it be an evil-has not been alleged or shewn -- to have had hitherto-either for better or worse -- the slightest influence upon any other part of Canada-but the same reasoning will apply to all parts.

The well known rule in all business transactions is applicable, that the supply of Chinese labor, will be regulated by the demand. In the more densely peopled parts of old Canada, the demand has not yet arisen, nor can it arise to an extent that will be prejudicial. In British Columbia it is not increasing, and with the completion of the public works the supply will seek other sources of employment. The benefit to British Columbia to be derived from the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway, so far exceeds all other considerations that up to this time the matter does not admit of discussion.

That work when completed will have advanced the maturity of British Columbia by fifty years, and without Chinese labor to complete it, it would have been delayed fifty.

CHAPTER 8.

A COUNTRY "WHERE THERE IS AN ENORMOUS CAPACITY OF PRODUCTION COUPLED WITH AN UTTER INADEQUACY OF MEANS." -- OLIPHANT.

The question must now be considered in its general aspect and bearing. Ist. As to whether any legislation at the present time is necessary or desirable.

2nd. If necessary or desirable on what principle it should be based.

In view of the first we have to remember that the powers of Parlia- Parliament ment are always existing, and always adequate to the occasion. They are concurrent with the country, and concurrent with the evil whatever it may be that affects the country, therefore the omission to legislate to day or to-morrow is no admission, that legislation on the proposed subject may not at some time be necessary. It is simply an admission, that it has not been proved that it is necessary at this time. Of the appropriate- ness of the time for legislation, Parliament which represents the whole people must be the judge, not the particular section which seeks the legislation. Any other position would make the whole subordinate to the part.

In determining the appropriateness of the time, Parliament will con- Will consider the sider the circumstances of the section for which the legislation is asked circumstances. as well as of the whole country, whether the evil be existing, or the danger remote. Too much legislation particularly in sumptuary matters, is as much to be avoided as too little. The more a Government will leave to the people, the management of their own private affairs, the better. How a man shall spend his money or whom he shall employ, had better be left to himself, unless a pressing public necessity should overrule his choice.

The state of a country described in the quotation which heads this A rational guide. chapter points out a rational guide to follow.

In deciding whether present legislation is necessary or desirable that element must have weight, it is not conclusive, but it is important. In furtherance of the observations made in the preceding chapter we find from the census returns of 1881, (page 94), that the actual area of British Census of 1881. Columbia is 341,305 square miles-218,435,200 acres, while that of Quebec is given at 188,688 square miles-120,764,651 acres, the Pro- British Columbia, vince of Ontario at 101,733 square miles-65,111,463 acres according to Quebec, Ontario, the same census. Both together not territorially as large as British Co- lumbia, but their united population amounting to 3,282,255, while the total actual population of British Columbia, including all races and classes, whites, Indians and Chinese, is by the same census in round num- United population bers 49,500, of which the whites are not quite 20,000. The influx since of Quebec and Ontario. the taking of the census in 1881, has undoubtedly largely increased that number, and the assumed number of 60,000, may well be taken as the Population of actual number, if not under. The question of number does not affect the British Columbia. principle, but it indefinitely postpones the danger, if danger there be, of Danger postponed this immense territory being overrun by any one class of people for many years. It is said that British Columbia, from its mountainous character does not afford the same accommodation for settlement that Ontario does. For the sake of argument-admit it. Throw off one half-and you have still room left for the entire population of Ontario 1,923,228. Nor is this comparison, as to population, in any way to lessen the value of British Co- lumbia to the Dominion. Small as is its population, its contribution to Contribution to

always existing.

revenue.

the general revenue exceeds the per capita of the other provinces as its territory exceeds theirs ; but it is only as bearing on the question of im- mediate danger from Chinese immigration that it is brought forward. The return of duties collected at the port of Victoria alone, for themonth of October, 1884, is $106,780.28, or at the rate of $1,281,363.36 per year. Surely it may be said of this country, " there is an enormous capacity of production, coupled with an utter inadequacy of means."

In ascertaining whether there be danger we must look to the evidence produced by the movers of the proposition-because it is in its application to this country we have to legislate. It is not whether the Chinese are bad in their own country. It is not whether they are bad or unsuitable in California or in the United States, but whether they are bad or un- suitable in British Columbia or Canada. Circumstances in each country may so vary as to render the Legislation in one unnecessary or injurious to the other. What each country will look for, from its own Parliament, is the practical legislation which suits itself.

These observations become the more applicable when the census from which the above returns are taken is analysed. The tables from which they are made are classified under separate heads of the races or origin from which the population is derived. Out of the entire numbers compos- ing the 3,282,255 of Ontario and Quebec, there are only twenty-nine Chinese. The danger to those Provinces must be, indeed, remote. The fear of competition with white labor, or the corruption of Canadian morals from such a source, must be infinitesimally small.

Practically, it is as to British Columbia alone, the question has to be considered, and the danger to that Province judged of by the evidence which its Government, Legislature and people have produced. It ought to be assumed that this movement was not made by its Legislature without having first thoroughly examined the subject, obtained the proof, and sat- isfied themselves of the soundness of their conclusions-with the care and impartiality becoming a deliberate assembly. The future welfare of the Province, and the development of its vast resources were not to be left to prejudice, idle declamation, or the dictation of interested classes.

When, therefore, in answer to the application of the Province to the Dominion Parliament for stringent legislation on the subject-as prepar- atory to such legislation, and for the purpose of determining its nature and extent-the opportunity was afforded to the Province to prove the danger -where, when so afforded, that proof was earnestly asked for- and where, when if it existed, it was within the command of those who alleged there was danger-then the omission to produce that proof is con- clusive, either as to its non-existence, or the inability of those who made the charge, to establish their position.

Unfortunately, among some persons who assume to be leaders of public opinion in the Province, there was an idea, that because the Local Legis- lature had passed certain resolutions denouncing the Chinese as an evil, therefore, that was conclusive against further enquiry, and the Dominion Parliament had no authority to go beyond.

This was a grave mistake. A resolution of the Local Legislature on a subject, on which it had no power to legislate, carries with it no con- clusive authority, and cannot be regarded as the constitutional expression of opinion of the people the Local Legislature represents. If the subject matter be one reserved by the constitution for another and higher Legisla- ture, it is plain that to that higher Legislature the people have delegated the power of expression. The power to legislate involves the power to consider, and the option to determine. The former without the latter is of little value.

Representation given for particular purposes, constitutionally limits the Representation. expression of authoritative opinion to those purposes, and binds the people represented only to the extent of those purposes. Under the British North America Act, all matters relating to trade and commerce, foreign Nations, Imperial or Dominion interests, are exclusively reserved to the Dominion Parliament. When, therefore, the doctrine was promulgated, that resolutions on this subject by the Local Legislature were to be con- sidered as the conclusive opinion of the Province, it was a mistake, because, in the higher Parliament to which such subjects are relegated, the Province has its representatives, and sends them there, to pronounce upon those subjects.

In that higher Parliament, the interest of the whole Dominion on the particular subjects have to be considered as paramount to the interests of the subordinate part, and the representatives of the latter must carry their position by the weight of reason, not by the assertion that another legislative body, of inferior standing, however much to be respected, had determined it. Whatever may be the judicial construction ultimately put upon the word "immigration," in the 95th section of the British North American Act, which it would be improper for the Commissioners No enterference here to assume, the contour of the whole Act shows it must be so limited with Dominion Parliament limited. as in no way to interfere with the power of the Dominion Parliament.

The Dominion Government and Parliament had and have the un-, doubted right to obtain evidence on all subjects bearing on the general public interests in such way as they may deem best, and they are not to be limited to the views of any particular local representations, as to the statement of facts bearing thereon, or conclusions drawn, to the considera- tion of which the Dominion Government and Parliament were no party. It is possible that but for thus being misled, there were persons in British Columbia who thought that they could have given important evidence, but did not. The Local Government, however, understood the Constitu- tion, and could not thus be misled. The Commissioners have before them misled. all the evidence that the highest Local Authorities could produce. The representatives from the Province in the Dominion Parliament, who knew the wishes and understood the desire of that Parliament for information, in order that justice might be done, and the future public welfare of the Dominion promoted, were invited by the Commissioners to aid the enquiry and make suggestions or direct attention to any point, fact or circum- stances they deemed important.

Government not

The evidence, it will be observed, consists not only of oral testimony- Best evidence obtained. of statistics, of written answers given after ample time for consideration to written questions-but also of several carefully prepared documents and letters transmitted by intelligent men who had given the subject much attention. It comes also from every class-the capitalist, the manufac- turer, the laborer, the contractor, the trader, the farmer, men of business; the rich, the poor ; settlers from the old countries who came in twenty or twenty-five years ago, have made the Province their home, and from others who have hardly ever been beyond the Province ; from the learned and the unlearned, scholars from the English universities and others, whose personal knowledge is the result of personal experience ; from the pioneers of 1858 and 1860, and from the immigrant who only came in two years ago -in every varied phase of life, information was sought ; and it Sources of may be questioned whether much remains beyond that gathered in, evidence. From that evidence it distinctly appears that the great body of the white inhabitants do not wish the removal of those Chinese who are now in the Against removal Province. If the danger to the morals of the community be so great as in the province. of Chinese now

6

has been described by some-if their presence really prevents a good class of white settlers coming in-if the carrying away of their earnings be so injurious to the country ; if vice, disease and leprosy be the consequence of their remaining-then they ought not to be allowed to remain an hour .. It is manifest, therefore, from the expression of opinion above referred to, that the great body of the people do not see the danger alleged ; in fact they do not believe it exists, or they would not have expressed that opinion. With reference to any further accession, there is a strong ex- pression that it should not be. How far that accession can be stayed until after the completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway is a question for the Parliament. Whether the stopping one of the main sources of the supply of labor to which the contractors looked, and to which under existing laws they were entitled to look, at the time they entered into their contracts with the Government, would or would not be, in the absence of any pressing necessity, a departure from good faith, is for Par- liament. How far the request that it should be done is consistent with the-urgent and repeated demands of the Legislature of British Columbia, that the construction of the railway should be carried on to completion with the utmost rapidity, is also for Parliament; and equally is it a question with that Parliament to determine whether the closing up of one of the main sources of the revenue (the establishment of Oceanic lines of steamers with China and Japan, for trade and commerce with those coun- tries, which would tend to relieve Canada of the burden of the expendi- ture caused by its construction, and which was urged as among the inducements for assuming it), is wise or not ; for surely the establishment of such lines for the purpose would be utterly futile, if no communication is to be had, or the people of those countries, or of either of them, are to be forbidden to accompany their business.

All the Commissioners have to report is that up to this time no evidence has been shown of any immediate danger to the country, or of any pressing necessity for immediate stringent legislation ; and they refer to the whole of the evidence placed before Parliament accompanying this report in support of that conclusion.

But, nevertheless, there is another element to be considered, that is Public sentiment. Public sentiment. Masses of people do not always reason logically, but sometimes instinctively arrive at conclusions, and the public in British Columbia have almost unanimously, in the evidence, expressed a wish that some legislation should be had on this subject. Therefore, though there be not any actual immediate danger, it may be and is desirable that suffi- cient legislation to meet existing evils, or what may augur the future ad- vent of supposed greater evils, should be had.

There are two principles on which such legislation may be based :

Ist. Entire and absolute exclusion.

2nd. Moderate restriction and sound regulations.

The first is unsound, injurious to commerce, and a violation of inter- national courtesy when applied to a nation with which we are at peace and have treaties, besides being illiberal and at variance with our own interests.

The second is promotive of good feeling, because it removes and prevents causes of irritation, which may lead to bad feeling, hostilities and reprisals. It is consistent which the law of self-interest, which compels every government to protect first its own people, (doing no wrong to a friendly power), and at the same time promote that commercial intercourse which leads to amity with all people.

It may be accomplished in three combined ways : 1st. By excluding all

who will be manifestly injurious to, or a burden on the finances of the Accomplished in country, such as paupers, criminals, sick, diseased, or persons from un- three ways. doubted reasons objectionable. 2nd. By limiting admission to those who by conduct and character would promote the trade and business of the country, and conduce to its prosperity and the conveniences of life. 3rd. By securing, if possible, the cordial co-operation of the country against whose people the legislation is directed, in carrying out the object and Secure coopera- policy of the law enacting such restriction and regulations, and for this tion. latter purpose by creating such tribunals as would remove or obviate the difficulties now existing in the administration of the laws as regards that foreign clement of the population, and give confidence to the peoples and governments of both countries-that not only that law, but all other laws affecting them, would be administered strictly, in accordance with the principles laid down, and with impartial justice.

As such special legislation and such special tribunals are only necessary in consequence of that particular foreign element, it is perfectly consistent that those constituting that foreign element, who come into the country for their own interest or pleasure, should bear the expense of the excep- tional tribunals, precautions and requirements created and necessary for their especial benefit and protection, when from peculiarity of race, incom- patibility of institutions, or characteristics of language, the comer cannot advantageously avail himself of the existing tribunals and institutions of the country.

Special tribunals.

Expense of.

For instance, the great difficulty that exists with reference to the Chi- nese in our ignorance of their language, customs, idiosyncrasies and reli- gion. We do not know how to get the truth from them, we cannot remove the suspicions from their minds that we do not intend to treat them fairly. To render the administration of justice satisfactory, it is not only necessary that it should be impartial, but that the conviction should exist that it is impartial. As to those people, therefore, expenses must be incurred as to interpreters, experts and expounders which are not necessary in other cases. They should feel that their language and cus- toms are thoroughly understood, and we-for our own sakes as dispensers of justice-that we understand and interpret them rightly. It may be difficult to accomplish but it can be done.

The same difficulty does not exist with the Teutonic or Latin races, Teutonic and' with comers from Europe or America-North or South ; numbers in every Latin races. community know their languages, customs, habits and religion, and in the administration of the laws no exceptional circumstances arise.

Such expenses, therefore, with reference to the Chinese fall within the Police regula- police regulations required for the good order of the community, and tions. though exceptional, do not constitute any violation of international law or courtesy.

It is said that this was not the course pursued by Australia or the United States. Each country must be governed by its own circumstances. The Australian Colonies had paid enormous sums to get out immigrants ; shipload after shipload left the shores of England freighted at their ex- pense with people who went out under inducements from the Government. They imported a population and deemed it right that that element which owed its existence to the public purse should be cherished and sustained until it could support itself.

From statistical notes of the progress of Victoria, Australia, published in 1861, pages 6 and 7, we find that in twenty-two years, from 1838 to 1859, there were introduced into the Colony at the partial expense of statistics .. the State, one hundred and fourteen thousand eight hundred and thirty-

Australian regu- lation.

Australian.

nine (114,839) souls, while during the same or a somewhat longer period, from 1836 to 1859, the unassisted emigration amounted to only five hundred and fifteen thousand nine hundred and sixty (515,960), or nearly one-fifth brought out by public aid ; and in the report made on the 17th of November, 1857, to the Legislative Assembly by the Select Committee on Chinese emigration, we find the following pertinent observations, showing a marked distinction between the nature of the occupations of the Chinese in Australia and British Columbia. In the former, simply depleting the country by the abstraction of its gold without leaving any valuable result behind ; in the latter by labor in the construction of great public railways, in the coal mines and canneries, and clearing the land, thereby tending to advance the country and prepare it for future agricultural settlers, in- creasing the facilities of intercourse and the extension of its trade and commerce.

It is also to be observed, that at that time war was raging between England and China, a circumstance which would facilitate the adoption, by the Legislature, of the bill submitted for imposing the exceptional taxa- tion of ten (£10) pounds sterling per capita, with a residence license fee bi-monthly of one pound sterling (£1) on all Chinese emigrants coming into the country.

The following are the extracts from the report of the Committee :

" Your Committee have ascertained that the immigrant Chinese are principally from that part of China, of which Canton is the capital, with which the British nation is at present in open hostility. These immigrants are not of that class commonly known as coolies, but comprise men from the country districts, as well as from the towns-cultivators, traders and mechanics."

"That in no instance, hitherto, have they applied themselves to the cul- tivation of the land, nor, indeed, to any of the industrial pursuits of the colony, save that of digging for gold. Their object being to acquire a sufficiency of means wherewith to return to their own country. That the Committee feel assured that the advantages derived from the trade and commerce, which the presence of such a vast population brings with it, affords no compensation to the country for the large and increasing quan- tity of gold, amounting in one year to about one hundred and twenty ounces (120,000 oz.), valued at half a million sterling, which the Chinese are annually abstracting from the natural wealth and resources of the country."

" That the Committee have ascertained that the majority of the Chinese are amenable to the laws of the country, and under a proper system of registration and management-through the agency of headmen of their own race, selected by themselves-order, to some extent, may be kept amongst them."

"That the fiscal regulations for the collection of rates and taxes imposed by the government, provided they are clearly and distinctly defined and enforced with justice and firmness-the Committee see no difficulty in carrying it out."

The Committee recommended the bill referred to, with the following additions :

" Ist. That any Chinaman found on the gold fields, or elsewhere in the colony, without a license or receipt, be subject to a penal servitude on the public works of the colony, for a period not exceeding three (3) months.

" 2nd. That any person arrested under this Act as a reputed Chinaman, it shall be sufficient for the accuser, to prove that the accused is reputed, or is considered by the accuser to be a Chinaman. His oath, or the oath of one

witness shall be sufficient proof, unless the contrary be shown, to make such person amenable to the provisions of this Act."-See Report and Bill.

It is to be hoped the Criminal Code of Canada may never contain its parallel.

The Government of British Columbia has never been in a position to import a population ; neither before Confederation, when the Province was unrestrained by the powers given to the Dominion Parliament by the British North America Act, nor since has it appropriated any money to aid in bringing in a population of white laborers. It has passed resolu- tions, made representations to the Dominion Government and Parliament, and issued pamphlets, but in no instance taxed itself for the above pur- pose. On the contrary, by clear deduction from their legislative proceed- ings, it declared the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway of more importance than the immigration of white labor, and gave to the Dominion Government as an inducement to build and hurry on its construction a twenty-mile belt along the line of railway, embracing the finest lands in the Province, including all the ungranted portions of the delta of the Fraser River, thus absolutely depriving itself of the power of giving farms to white settlers should they come in. No doubt that concession was in full accord with the wishes of the people at the time it was made, and also with the future and permanent interests of the Province, for without that inlet for white immigration, the Province, however great its inducements, would have remained unpeopled for an indefinite period, but its effective- ness in hitherto preventing white settlements is evidenced by the rapidity with which the lands are now being taken up since the embargo has been withdrawn, amounting, as shown by the official returns, in one district alone along the Fraser to be 3,795 persons in one year. The argument, therefore, that would be available for the Australian Colonies does not apply.

The legislation of the United States on this subject has been gravely questioned by leading American statesmen, and was denounced pending Legislation. the discussion in Congress on the measure. Its exclusion of laborers alone not only brought it within the objectionable category of class legis- lation, but its limitation to ten years showed it to be a matter of doubtful expediency, not of principle, besides, through the intricacy of its details, affording constant facilities for deceit and cvasion. Perhaps no law has ever been passed by Congress for which such a feeling of general contempt prevailed. It was a departure from all the traditions and policy of the country.

From the first date of her national existence, the United States has taken the lead in broad international views. At the time when England. was at the zenith of her maritime greatness the United States boldly denounced her policy, defied her power, and proclaimed the doctrine that the neutral flag covered neutral goods, that the national flag made the Neutral flag. decks of her merchant ships upon the seas national territory, and that National flag. there should be no right of search and no seamen taken therefrom. And still later, when hardly recovered from her great civil war, she laid down the principle that every nation must so regulate its own municipal code, Municipal Code. that, whether there be existing law or not, she must prevent her subjects doing injuries to other nations with which she was at peace or pay the damage-principles which the war of 1812-14 and the payment of the Alabama $15,000,000 have now established as the law of nations. In the peaceful relations of life she invited the industrious of all the nations of the earth to take advantage of her broad domain and the benefit of her

free institutions, but she forbade all nations to make her country a poor- house for the pauper, the convict, or the diseased, sending them back to England or wherever they came from. This Chinese legislation was the first departure from her great principles of international law.

It has also been questioned whether it was on sound principles of poli- tical economy to confound the good with the bad, reject the useful with the useless, and prohibit all labor-the good as well as the bad-for fear of competition, simply because it comes from a particular country with which the most friendly intercourse is otherwise held.

It was certainly not in accordance with the policy which peopled the United States. Be that as it may, the United States legislated to suit themselves.

It by no means follows that the same legislation will suit Canada, nor is it shown to be the wish of the people of British Columbia. The policy of restriction and regulation which the Commissioners report is a policy of judicious selection. Take what is good, reject what is bad, study the interests of the country, consider its circumstances. There is not in the Province of British Columbia the white labor to do the required work. Yet the work must be done or the country must stand still. When the white labor is so abundant that there is a reasonable fear that the coun- try may be injured by the competition, Parliament can legislate by exclu- sion or otherwise to meet the occasion. There is no such fear at present, and the evidence shows the occasion has not arisen.

CHAPTER 9.

DETAILS OF SUGGESTED LEGISLATION.

Having thus concluded that legislation is desirable, and suggested the principle on which it should be based, it becomes necessary to mention more in detail the means by which it is considered the designated object could be obtained-that is how the beneficial immigration is to be separ- ated from the injurious, how confidence on both sides is to be established, and how funds are to be raised, by which the expenses incident to the plan proposed are to be borne.

1st. As an almost essential element to creating confidence on behalf of the Chinese, the commissioners would recommend that the Dominion Government take the proper steps through the Imperial Government to secure the appointment of a Chinese consul at Victoria, thoroughly acquainted with their languages, customs and religious ideas, in fact a Chinaman. He would be a medium of communication between his coun- trymen and the local authorities by which many doubts would be removed and difficulties obviated. As in all other Diplomatic relations, if he made himself obnoxious or troublesome, on proper representation he could be removed or his exequatur withdrawn.

2nd. That an act be passed by the Dominion Parliament imposing a duty of say $10 per head, to be collected as other customs duties, on each and every Chinaman or Chinawoman, every Chinese boy or girl landing in or coming into the Province of British Columbia, in accordance with the regulations hereinafter prescribed ; the said tax to be a charge upon the ship, vessel, boat or means of transport, whether by land or water, and without exception as to all Chinese, except those who are merely travellers passing through to avail themselves of the Canadian Pacific

Railway en route to Europe or the United States or countries other than Canada, a certificate from the Chinese consul in Victoria to be received by the authorities as evidence to the latter effect.

Memorandum .- The duty of $10 per head being a charge upon the ship, will be effective, as the ship-owner will take care that it is paid at the port of departure before embarkation of the passengers, thus to a great degree preventing the transmission of paupers or objectionable per- sons by the companies or parties who send out laborers under contract.

From the return of the collector of customs at Victoria, during the last four months the average of Chinese incomers might be estimated at 3000 per annum, which at $10 per head would give $30,000 a year.

3rd. That the sum raised by such taxation be applied exclusively for the purposes hereinafter named :

Ist. For the payment of a proper health inspector to be appointed by Health Inspector the Dominion Government, whose duty it shall be to inspect, on the of Chinese. arrival of any vessel at the Port of Victoria or elsewhere in British Columbia from China or any foreign port, carrying passengers, the Chi- nese passengers on board, and forthwith to report to the collectors of customs the number, sexes, and state of health and condition of each Chinese person, classifying them accordingly, and stating whether any and how many are deseased, deformed, sick or incapable of work, paupers, filthy, or otherwise from apparent reasons objectionable and designating such persons so that they can be identified ; for which inspection and report the said inspector shall be allowed for each vessel the sum of $-, as per order in council regulating the same.

4th. That the collector of customs shall prevent the landing of any Prevent landing persons so designated as paupers, diseased, deformed, filthy or otherwise objectionable.

5th. That it shall be the duty of the shipmaster, ship owners, or con- signee of such ships, to aid in preventing the landing of such persons as last aforesaid, and any expenses incurred in re-shipping or sending away to China or elsewhere, persons landing in violation of these regulations, shall be a charge upon the said ship. shipmaster, ship-owner or consignee, to be recovered in the ordinary conrts according to law, together with a penalty not exceeding $100 for each offense or violation.

Penalty.

6th. That for the purpose of creating confidence in the administration Joint Tribunal. of justice, and ascertaining the truth when the Chinese are concerned, a joint commission shall be established to have jurisdiction in all civil suits between the Chinese themselves or the Chinese and other parties.

7th. That the said commission shall be composed of one or more judges appointed by the Dominion Government and paid out of the fund hereby created a salary of -, being a lawyer of at least ten years continued practice, member of the Bar of British Columbia or of one of the other Provinces of the Dominion, and capable of speaking and comprehending the Chinese language and writing, to hold appointment during good beha- vior, the other member of the commission to be the Chinese consul at Victoria, the chairman of such commission to be ex officio the senior judge appointed by the Dominion Government.

Memorandum. -- As bearing on the 6th, 7th and 8th paragraphs, see the observations of Mr. Lowe, formerly American Minister to China, at page 184 of Evidence ; also the Australian Report.

8th. That in addition to its civil jurisdiction, the said tribunal shall Civil Criminal have criminal jurisdiction over all crimes, misdemeanors and offences com- Jurisdiction. mitted by the Chinese, under and according to the provisions of the Crim- inal Code of the Dominion, except in cases when the penalty of the offence is death.

9th. That in no case shall it have the power of imprisonment in the penitentiary beyond a period of years, or jurisdiction of a criminal nature · in any case, where a white man is charged, unless by his written consent first obtained, duly witnessed, filed, and entered of record in the Conrt.

Jurisdiction collection per cent taxes penalties and intestate estates,

10th. That such tribunal shall have power to enforce the collection and payment of all Dominion, Provincial and municipal taxes due by the Chinese or any of them, of all penalties and punishments incurred for non-obedience or violation of the Dominion revenue laws, Provincial or municipal laws, imposing or regulating taxation, or providing for sanitary measures. That it shall have jurisdiction over and take charge of all Chinese intestate estates, and collect and pay over to the officer authorized by law to receive the same, all dues, per centage, fees and charges, under any Provincial enactments chargeable against such estate.

11th. That in case of contagious or other dangerous diseases breaking out in the community, it shall have power and it shall be the duty of the. said tribunal forthwith to enforce among the Chinese the municipal laws and regulations made to prevent the spread of such diseases, and to enforce all laws and regulations for sanitary purposes.

12th. That from all decisions, judgments or final orders of the said tribunal, there may be an appeal on points of law to the Supreme Court of the Province, but no appeal or reviews on question of fact ; the finding of the said tribunal, on matters of fact coming within its jurisdiction,. being final and conclusive.

13th. That no mode of punishment shall be inflicted in the Province: among the Chinese, by or under the order or direction of any secret society or organization, or otherwise than in accordance with the adjudication of the said tribunal, or the law of the land; any such punishment or attempt thereto, to be in law a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and imprisonment. with or without hard labor.

14th. That the said tribunal shall have power to appoint a competent officer to act as clerk and registrar of the said Court, to keep all records. and issue all summonses and other documents connected with the discharge of its duties and the execution of its powers. That he shall be acquainted with the Chinese language and writing, and be paid a salary of $ --- per month.

15th. That it shall be the duty of the said tribunal to select trust- worthy, competent and reliable interpreters thoroughly acquainted with the Chinese language, to attend on requisition the Supreme Court or any other tribunal when prosecutions, suits, proceedings or enquiries are being held in matters to which the Chinese and white, or other persons than Chinese, may be parties, a certificate from the said two Commissioners, to be evidence of competency and appointment of such interpreters.

16th. That the said tribunal shall have power to make short and sum- mary forms of procedure for the purposes and business of the said court, to appoint constables for executing their orders among the Chinese, mak- ing rules, and otherwise doing what is necessary for justice, in no case, as to substance or principle, departing from the law of the land otherwise than as herein authorized and provided.

17th. That the said tribunal shall have power to rent all buildings and offices, and all others that may be necessary for the efficient discharge of their duties, or the promotion of sanitary measures in the district of the- city occupied by the Chinese.

18th. That all expenses and payments shall be duly certified and vouched for, and returned quarterly to the Dominion Government, and shall be chargeable to and paid out of the fund hereby created ..

19th. That the said tribunal shall establish an efficient system of regis- Registration of tration of all Chinese resident in the Province, classifying their names, Chinese. sexes, occupations, and places of residence as nearly as possible, once in every year, making the same in triplicate, one copy to be sent to the secretary of state for the Dominion, one copy to the Provincial secretary of British Columbia, and one to the mayor of the city of Victoria for the use and benefit of the public. And it shall be the duty of the said tribunal, whenever so requested by either of the said official authorities to afford every assistance in identifying any party or parties so registered.

20th. That any person, maliciously, or unlawfully mutilating, defacing Mutilating of or altering the said register, or copy of the said registration, shall be Register. guilty of a misdemeanor and be punishable by fine and imprisonment.

21st. That in case the public service should require it, the Dominion Dominion power Government shall have power to supend the collection of the said tax, and of suspension. the operation of this act, making other provision for the commission appointed by the Dominion Government.

22nd. That penalties incurred for violations of this Act shall be Penalties. recoverable before the ordinary tribunals of the Province, by and in the name, and at the instigation of the Attorney-General or other public pro- secuting officer --- as the offence may pertain to or come under the Domi- nion or Provincial legislation, or any municipal ordinance, by-law or regulation.

23rd. That all expenses, in case of judgment or conviction, shall be Expences. borne and paid by the offender, or in case of his inability to do so, out of the fund hereby created, the same having been first duly taxed by the proper officer.

The foregoing suggested outlines of a measure for the consideration of the Dominion Parliament, it will be perceived, will, when amended in its passage through Parliament, secure the power of selection of the incoming immigrants ; prevent the landing of those that are objectionable, secure confidence in the administration of the Dominion, Provincial and Muni- cipal laws severally, and the administration of criminal justice ; aid in the detection of crime and identification of the offenders by means of an effi- cient registration and competent interpreters ; put the burden of expense upon those for whose benefit the proposed measures are intended, and relieve the Dominion, Provincial and Municipal exchequers from all out- lay, without any violation of international or commercial law or of political economy.

But the commissioners would further suggest that the Dominion Gov- ernment should urge upon the Government and Legislature of British Columbia the propriety of passing an Act, regulating domestic service in British Columbia somewhat similar to the Agricultural Laborers' Act in England. It will be found often repeated in the evidence that the Chinese break engagements in domestic service to the very great injury of those with whom they engage, and that the law at present provides no efficient remedy for the loss to the one party, or adequate punishment to the other. A very simple enactment would obviate this difficulty, the details of which would fall within the purview of the Local Legislature.

Act regulating domestic service ..

CHAPTER 10.

TRADE RELATIONS BETWEEN CHINA AND CANADA.

This question has hitherto been regarded mainly from the stand-point of British Columbia. It must now assume a broader aspect, and the ques- tion is : whether Canada, at the commencement of her national career, is to adopt a policy of narrow exclusion or a policy of broad, enlightened and liberal progress ; whether, on the first occasion of commanding the trade of two Oceans and legislating beyond the domain of local and sectional interests, she is to be governed by imaginary fears or by a reliance on the natural vigor of her people, and the spirit of enterprise and competition which can alone make them great and powerful.

Result of the con- flict of races.

If we look at the whole history of the Western and Eastern Hemi. spheres-of the nations of Asia and of America from the time of Colum- bus, we find the latter have gone down race after race before the people of Europe and their descendants ; we find, that the savages of North America -- far more warlike, far more aggressive than the Chinese, superior in physique, superior in the arts of resistance-have melted away before the colonists who settled North America under difficulties that would have overwhelmed any but the descendants of the indomitable races from which they sprung ; we find that in the last century and a half, these same descendants have not only brought the whole continent of North America under their absolute control, have swept over the islands of the Pacific, conquered India and colonized Australia, but have penetrated to the heart of this very China now so dreaded, and at the gates of its Capital dic- tated the terms alone on which China should be allowed to exist as an Empire ; we find we forced our people and our trade upon them against their will ; boasted of our institutions, our civilization and our strength ; insisted upon putting in our treaties with them-against the remon- strances of their Government and the habits and wishes of their people- a distinct clause that they should be permitted to emigrate from their own land and come to our country ; and now the moment we find them sober and industrious, frugal and money-making, and a few thousands of them coming over to North America to do the lowest drudgery of labor, it is proposed we should legislate to exclude them for fear they may con- quer and drive us out of our own possessions. What a commentary upon the energy of our race and the history of the past!

It would seem that before giving way to imaginary fears, or theoretical problems about the future it would be the primary duty of Canada to consider immediate action for relieving the finances of the Dominion of the immense burden caused by the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway. This un lertaking was not for British Columbia, but for the welfare and development of the whole Dominion-for consolidating its disunited territory and bringing into active co-operation the varied ele- ments of wealth and prosperity lying throughout the country, thereby laying the foundation of its future national greatness. It was one of the boldest liabilities ever assumed by a young country of limited population and limited means. It is unparalelled. The oldest nations of Europe would have paused before the responsibility of such an undertaking as a national Government work; but it was assumed by Canada with an abiding confidence not only in the resources of the country but a reliance on the vigor, energy and enterprise of her people. Three thousand miles of railway through a rocky wilderness, through an unsettled country, over

the Rocky Mountains, the Cascade and Coast ranges, down the most pre- cipitous canyons to the sea ; and $120,000,000 of debt.

To the indirect advantages resulting from the work in the general development of the country was added the inducement of profitable direct communication and trade with China, India and Japan, not only as sup- plying the wants of Canada, but as supplying the wants of Great Britain and other European nations by affording increased and additional facilities to those already existing- a traffic which day by day would add to the wealth and advancement of Canada.

Debt.

Traffic.

Who were the parties to the construction of this great work-to the Parties to, and assumption of this onerous liability? compact.

By the terms of Union between Canada and British Columbia, sanctioned by the Queen in Council on the 16th of May, 1871, Canada assumed the existing debts and liabilities of the Province, the payment of annual subsidies to British Columbia amonnting to two hundred and seven thousand nine hundred and ninety-four dollars ($207,994), with an aug- mentation of eighty (80c.) cents per capita as it advanced in population, according to each decennial census, and the current annual expenses of carrying on the main departments of the public service, with representa- tion in the Dominion Parliament, and further undertook "to commence and complete within a certain time the construction of a railway from the Terms of union. Pacific towards the Rocky Mountains, and from such point as may be selected east of the Rocky Mountains towards the Pacific to connect the seaboard of British Columbia with the railway system of Canada, and the Government of British Columbia agreed to convey to the Dominion Government in trust to be appropriated in such manner as the Dominion Government might deem advisable in furtherance of the construction of the said railway a similar extent of public lands along the line of railway throughout its entire length in British Columbia, not to exceed, however, twenty (20) miles on each side of said line, as may be appropriated for Railway belt. the same purpose by the Dominion Government from the public lands in the North-West Territories and the Province of Manitoba," with certain provisions as to pre-empted rights or granted lands, within the said limits, and making good the same to the Dominion Government from contiguous Public Lands, and a restriction that until the commencement of construc- tion within two years from the date of the Union, " The Government of British Columbia should not sell or alienate any further portions of the Public Lands of British Columbia in any other way than under right of pre-emption requiring actual residence of the pre-emptor on the land .claimed by him. In consideration of the land so to be conveyed in aid of Pre-emption. the construction of the said railway, the Dominion Government agrees to pay to British Columbia from the date of the Union the sum of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per annum in half-yearly payments Additional sub- sidy $100,000. in advance."

The Dominion has since annually paid the subsidies, borne the expenses Performance. of the public services defined, the one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000), and carried the construction of the road nearly to completion.

At the time this agreement was made, the Chinese evil, as it is termed, Time. was in full force in San Francisco, the habits of the Chinese, their com- petition with white labor, their cheap mode of living, their transmission Chinese. to their own country of the results of their industry, were well known on the Pacific coast. They had then come in numbers to British Columbia, and it was in the power of British Columbia to have legislated against ' them, had it been for the interests of the Province to do so. No action in that direction was taken, and after the Union, the most urgent pres-

Presence of

Pressure for con- sure was brought to bear upon the Dominion Government to hurry on struction.

the work of railway construction according to the terms of Union. Exten- sion of the time for completion was refused. Resolution after resolution was passed by the Local Legislature and Government complaining of delay. Deputation after deputation sent to the Imperial Government alleging a breach of faith. The "Carnarvon terms" were pressed, and every influence that the Province could bring to bear was used to force the construction through.

As it was known that the work could not be done without Chinese labor-as the evidence shews it could not have been, as most unques- tionably not within the time within which it will be now accomplished, : it must be assumed that whatever the Chinese evils were, they were not. sufficient to counterbalance the gain to be acquired by the completion of the work, and especially must it be assumed that until such time as the burden of the cost of construction has been materially lifted from the shoulders of the general public of the Dominion, no step should be taken, unless of absolute necessity, to thwart the productive character of the road. These are propositions which, in the ordinary transactions of life, would be considered clear and undoubted.

The foreign trade to China, India and Japan-the formation of large commercial depots in BritishColumbia, connected in business intercourse with those countries, have always been regarded by intelligent men as among the sources of its productive revenue. The ocean lines of steamers, the construction of public docks and wharves incident thereto, the handling of the vast traffic therefrom will demand an intelligent popu lation the Chinese cannot supply, and that population will come and settle in the country as soon as the work is there for them to do.

In the presence of such great results, it is unpractical to talk of the white races of Englishmen, Scotchmen, Irishmen, Americans, Cana- . dians and Europeans being contaminated by a little opium or a few Chinese women, or driven from the field of industry by a few thousand Chinese unskilled laborers. The races that have hitherto conquered the world must indeed have become degenerate if such can be the case. One year's consumption of whiskey would do more harm in Canada than all the Chinese who ever crossed the Pacific Ocean to become settlers or laborers on the Pacific coast.

The instructions to the commissioners were " to report upon the whole "subject of Chinese immigration, and consider its trade relations as well " as those social and moral objections taken to the influx of the Chinese : " people in Canada."

The trade relations of China with Canada, except as to that portion lying within the Province of British Columbia, have hitherto been limited, as compared with the Canadian trade to other countries, and may be said to have had no very material effect.

Upon British Columbia they have. The custom-house returns already quoted for the month of October last show that that Province is contrib- uting to the general revenue of the Dominion, in the payment of duties, at the rate of over one million per annum, and that of these the duties resulting from the Chinese trade have increased from one hundred and seventy-four dollars and forty-seven cents ($174.47) in 1874 to one hun- dred and eleven thousand, three hundred dollars and fifteen cents . ($111,300.15) in 1884 -- ten years,-or at the rate of 637 per cent. It may from this be argued what those duties will be when the ocean line of steamers between the countries of the East and the terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway in British Columbia shall be established, and

the through traffic from Great Britain, the Eastern Provinces, and North- West Territories of Canada is in full force. It may reasonably be Approximation inferred, such is the rapidity of the growth of commerce from increased of contribution to revenue. facilities, that in a few years the contribution to the general revenue of the Dominion from the Pacific trade will closely approximate to that from the Atlantic.

In the consideration of this future it must not be overlooked that foreign complications may materially affect the utility of the Suez Canal Complications as to Suez Canal. to Great Britain as a mode of transit. She has no absolute exclusive control and no national hold upon the feelings or affections of the people through whose country it passes. Trade at the point of the bayonet, or under the guns of a man-of-war is not the most productive, and certainly not the most satisfactory. All these difficulties, all these exceptional characteristics are avoided in the transit by the Canadian Pacific Railway. Such difference must in time, and in a short time, produce a marked effect. Looking at it, even in its most limited point of view (apart from all exterior influences or contributions), at the mere increase of Internal trade alone Increase of inter- between Eastern Canada and British Columbia, under the burden-some nal trade. drawback of transportation through a foreign country, and the conflicting interests of more contiguous bases of supply, we find, from the Customs Returns, that the Imports from the Eastern Provinces, into the port of Victoria alone increased from $22,215 in the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1872, to $788,287 in the fiscal year ending 30th June, 1884, the increase being steadily progressive during the intervening years. If, this increase has taken place during that period with all the impediments, expenses, and difficulties of transportation through a foreign country and otherwise, what may not be expected with the increasing population and rapid development that will follow on the Pacific coast of the Dominion, from the completion of the Internal line of communication, and the removal of existing drawbacks and expenses of transportation ? None but men of the most extensive experience and the largest comprehension can pre- figure the vastness of such results. It may be safely said, that in a few years they will exceed the calculations of the boldest, as Canada herself in the last seventeen years in her influence, her power, and material pro- gress has surpassed all that was preconceived of the consequences of the Union of British North America into one consolidated Dominion.

It is terrible to think that this trade-this future-may be jeopardized by the sparsest population in the whole Dominion, scattered throughout a territory larger than Ontario and Quebec combined.

The coming of the Chinese into British Columbia up to this time has produced no effect whatever upon the labor market of the other Provinces of Canada. If the Census Returns are correct the Chinese have not gone into those Provinces, not the price of a day's labor has been reduced by their competition, not a laborer in one of the cities or towns been met by the opposing service of the Chinese. If as to those Provinces the argument be of any avail, as regards labor, it is good against all labor, whether it be European or American coming in. The country must be reserved simply for those who are in it, and all accession to population stopped, save by the natural increase of marriages and births. It is not necessary to consider such a proposition.

The greatness of the English trade with China at one port alone has English trade been shown to have amounted in one year to over fifty-one mil- lion two hundred and eleven thousand nine hundred and ninety-eight dollars ($51,211,998) of which twenty-seven thousand seven hundred and twenty dollars ($27,720,000) was from Great Britain direct. Taking the length

No effect.

Equally untenable in the main are the moral and social objections to the presence of the Chinese. The religion and morals of a people depend upon the people themselves, not upon the foreigners who come into the country for business or pleasure. The latter may influence to a small degree the limited circles within which they move, but can produce no perceptible effect upon the great masses of the people. The Jews have not dechristianized England or the United States, though resident in large numbers in those countries and classed among the most useful and re- spected of their citizens. Yet it is well known that on their first advent into England, they were persecuted with a ferocity greater even than that the present antipathy to the Chinese would dictate, and that among many of the eastern nations of Europe, even at this day, they are treated with savage brutality ; but of what character are the nations who now so treat them, ignorant, debased, fanatical, and hardly above the savage in mental or civilised characteristics.

The English and Americans have not christianised the Chinese, though they have gone to China in large numbers, not only for trade and pleasure, but for missionary purposes, teaching the doctrines of a religion and a code of morals more ennobling and more attractive than the idolatry which there exists. How derogatory, then to the French, English and American races in Canada to assert that the presence of a few laboring ignorant Chinese will cause the Canadian people to abandon the religion of their fathers, the morals, education and higher Christian civilization of their institutions, to adopt the idol worship and debasing morals and habits of the heathen.

Thus, therefore, history and reason tell us, that in moral and social habits, beyond a very limited circle the influence of the foreigner in a debasing direction will be extremely small, and upon the great masses of the people absolutely imperceptible when the country into which they come is of a higher organisation in morals and civilization.

of the circuitous voyage, and the possible complications that may arise from the non-exclusive control of the Suez Canal, it may fairly be inferred that of this twenty-seven million a considerable portion will hereafter. find its way by the Canadian Pacific ; thus adding materially to the pro- ductive character of the work. Legislation, therefore, which throws. impediments in the way of this traffic is doing a serious injury to Canada by retaining the burden of taxation for its construction upon the people. It is in view of the future only, as to trade, that the question can be regarded as having any marked influence on Canada, their past trade with China having, except as to British Columbia, been so comparatively un- important as to constitute no material factor in the calculation. The day for narrow and obstructive policy has passed. It is impossible to depict in language sufficiently strong the advantages of unrestricted intercourse- with foreign countries, if we really are the superior race. In such case we must influence them, not they us. Whatever good there be among them it is in our power to take, whatever evil to reject. It is an attitude of weakness inconsistent with the British and American races to admit the contrary. The undersigned commissioner cannot, therefore, see how it is possible that any valid objections can be raised to "trade relations be- tween Canada and China.

It is admitted that the Chinese do not amalgamate or intermarry with the people of the country or take part in its political or legislative pro- ceedings, but they do not prevent other people coming in who can or. choose to amalgamate and intermarry. To say that they do so prevent, by their competition in the labor market, is in principle equally to say

that nobody should come in, because such coming is an interference with existing prices and, therefore, injurious to the particular class interfered with, but it is not injurious to the greater number, for the rule is the greatest good to the greatest number. It may be laid down as a clear axiom in political economy that monopolies are injurious to the state, and a power to dictate so as to forbid competition should always be prevented. In the previous pages and in the evidence this point has been so much enlarged upon, and by the latter it has been so clearly shown that the presence of the Chinese has not operated as a preven- tive, though repeatedly asserted, to other immigration, that it is not necessary to dwell upon it.

There may, as to their not taking part in the political or legislative Reasons for not proceedings, be many reasons why it is desirable that they should not : giving the fran- neither by habits or education have they been trained to the consideration of constitutional government, and it is well that in this respect, like the waters of the Rhine and the Moselle, the Fraser and the Thomson, they should run on in the ordinary course for a while, without intermingling.

It may be for such reasons that at present they should not have the franchise ; but that very reservation keeps the controlling power in the hands of those who object to them, and prevents a legislation, which (could they interfere) might be made injurious to local industries ; so that in reality competition is limited to actual labor, without any power of dicta- tion other than what may indirectly flow from greater industry and frugality.

If, outside of such industrial considerations, we are permitted to look, we will find Canada has nothing to dread from any amalgamation. The Russians control one-half of the Mongolian races of the world-from the Caucasus to the mountains of Thibet, from the Volga and the Don, Mongolian races .. Russia and the through Siberia to the great wall of China. The plains of Tartary form the training schools of half their young men, but at this moment the Rus- sians themselves physically and mentally stand first amid the nations of Europe ; so little consequence has the fear of amalgamation upon the character of a people.

To Canada any danger from the Chinese is simply problematical-a Danger too dread of some possible detriment that may under extraordinary circum- problematical. stances happen a quarter of a century hence, but if experience with refer- ence to these people proves anything, it clearly shows that as soon as the demand for their labor ceases the supply will cease. The charge against them is that they will not remain in the country. Then the danger from them is gone ; the result of their labor they cannot take away ; the road that is built, the land that is cleared by their labor remains and is the better fitted for the possession of the actual settler, by the greater adapt- ability it affords for transit of goods, or the immediate fructification of the soil. If, therefore, by the strongest construction of argument it could possibly be maintained that there is an immediate evil, it is an evil which cures itself by the exhaustion of the causes which create it. Cease to offer them work and they will cease to come.

It is impossible to contend that there is any immediate danger to Can- Danger too ada as a whole. As to that part of Canada within British Columbia, the problematical. legislation that is wanted is the practical legislation to suit immediate exigencies, based on a principle that can be defended-the principle of restriction for police and sanitary purposes.

There is no occasion for any dread of the future. Public opinion now and always hereafter will operate immediately and directly upon the Parliament, and whenever an evil is proved to exist, legislation can

Monopolies injurious.

be had to meet it. Future Parliaments can deal with it when it comes, when it is real, better than a Parliament which deals with it only through the medium of an excited fear as to what it may be.

In the consideration of this question it must not be overlooked, that this immigration of the Chinese into the British Colonies was at the express request and urgency of the British Government, that it was con- trary to the traditions and policy of the Chinese Empire and against the wishes of their Government.

That it was a concession torn from the latter by the force and deter- mination of the former.

The history of this concession is somewhat curious. It is well known that the Chinese regarded all others than subjects to the Chinese Empire as Barbarians, and permitted no intercourse. In the Treaty of Nankin, between Great Britain and China, signed on behalf of Her Majesty, at Nankin, by Sir Henry Pottinger, on the 29th of August, 1842, and rati- fied on the 26th June, 1843, there is an express provision for amnesty of those Chinese subjects who had ventured to reside with, or have deal- ings with the British. By the 9th article, " The Emperor of China, agrees to publish and promulgate under his Imperial sign manual and seal a full and entire amnesty, and act of Indemnity to all subjects of China, on account of their having resided under, or having had dealings and intercourse with, or having entered the service, of Her Britannic Majesty or of Her Majesty's officers, and His Imperial Majesty. further engages to release all Chinese subjects who may be at this moment in confinement for similar reasons."

In the Imperial edict issued in confirmation of this treaty on August 3rd, 1843, and for carrying out its provisions, by the 7th paragraph it is declared :

"(7.) At the various ports where the Barbarians are to trade, they are allowed to carry on their dealings indiscriminately with whomsoever of our merchants they please, and all debts contracted between them are to be paid by the respective parties without official interference."

" (11.) The natives of the Middle Kingdom who have been in attend- ance upon the officers of the said English nation are to be considered free from guilt for so doing, and as peace has now been declared the people of both nations are to be regarded as one mutual whole, no one again daring to proceed to bloodshed.'

(16.) "Let each of the above items be detinitely arranged with the Barbarians, giving closest attention to the minutest particulars, that the treaty may be drawn up in the most clear and intelligent terms, prevent- ing all other difficulties and confusion of affairs. As the Barbarians can- not understand us, let the services of interpreters be employed that they may be satisfied. Respect this. Dated 8th September, 1842."

By the treaty of Tient-sin, June 26th, 1858, signed by Lord Elgin, on behalf of Her Majesty by the 1st article the preceding treaty is renewed and confirmed, by the 9th and subsequent articles, British subjects are permitted to travel to all parts of the interior of China for pleasure or purposes of trade, and also acquired many privileges and advantages which they had not before possessed. By the 31st arlicle "it is agreed that henceforward the character Barbarian shall not be applied to the Government or subjects of Her Britannic Majesty in any Chinese official

document issued by the Chinese authorities, either in the capital or in the Provinces."

The last named treaty having been violated by the Chinese previous to 3rd Treaty. its ratification, war was again renewed and a third treaty was signed after the capture of Pekin at Pekin by Lord Elgin on behalf of Her Majesty on October 24, 1860, by which after increasing the war indem- nity and expenses stipulated by the second treaty, agreeing to ratify the 112. . last named treaty and granting other advantages, it was by the 6th 3rd Treaty. article specially provided that :

Hertzlett, vol. xi,

(5) "As soon as the ratification of the treaty of 1858 shall have been " exchanged His Imperial Majesty the Emperor of China will by Decree " command the High authorities of every province to proclaim throughout " their jurisdiction, that Chinese choosing to take service in the British " Colonies, or other parts beyond sea are at perfect liberty to enter into " engagements with British subjects for that purpose and to ship themselves " and their families on board any British vessel at any of the open ports " of China, also that the High authorities aforesaid shall in concert " with Her Britannic Majesty's representatives in China frame such " regulations for the protection of Chinese emigrating as above as the " circumstances of the different open ports may demand. "

Thus we see, it was not until after being three times beaten, after paying enormous sums of money, or as the Emperor mournfully says in the edict above cited (article 8). " The money, twenty-one million " ($21,000,000) is to be paid by annual instalments. It is a vast amount Indemnity. " and where is such a sum to come from to be given away ! Let Ye King "alone be held responsible hereafter for arranging the matter and " registering beforehand the places which are to supply their respective " quota of the funds and memoralize the court accordingly," not until after exacting a further sum of ten million six hundred and sixty-six thousand six hundred and sixty-six ($10,666,666) for further indemnity and war expenses, compelling them to open seaports and violate all the traditions and customs of their country, this great concession was obtained.

It was not until after all this that the Chinese Emperor thew up his hands and agreed that his subjects might give the benefit of their frugality and industry to the British Colonies.

It would now be a matter of grim satisfaction to him, if he only knew how some of the inhabitants of some of those colonies appreciate the blessing.

CHAPTER XI.

" Since the lord of the territory may whenever he think proper forbid its being entered, he has a power to annex what conditions he pleases to the permission to enter. This is a consequence of the right of domain. If he annexes any particular conditions, he ought to have measures taken to acquaint foreigners with it, when they present themselves on the frontier. He ought not to grant an entrance into his state for the purpose of drawing foreigners into a snare. As soon as he admits them he engages to protect them as his own subjects, and to afford them perfect security as far as depends on him."- Vattel's " Law of Nations," Chap. 8.

Grim satisfaction.

7

While it is essentially necessary that in the consideration of this ques- tion regard should not be limited to British Columbia alone it is equally necessary to observe that a duty devolves upon the paramount authority to see that the laws are enforced, and the rights of all parties protected and preserved.

The two following extracts from the evidence taken at San Francisco in 1876 (pages 181 and 207), will show the pertinence of the above quotation from Vattel and the preceding observation.

At 181, Col. Bee said : " He had seen the Chinese immigrants stoned from the time they left their ships until they reached Chinatown. He had seen them leaning over the sides of the waggon with their scalps cut open. No police interfered. In portions of San Francisco no Chinaman dare to be seen. The Chinese had no privileges."

Mr. Ellis, the former chief of police (page 207), says : " Chinamen have been very badly abused here. The hoodlums stone, beat, and abuse them in a shameful manner, and if he is found in a part of the city alone when the police are not in call if he escapes with his life or without being maimed or badly treated, he is very fortunate. Hoodlums here have the same standing as 'roughs' or vagabonds in the East, the majority of them eventually becoming thieves and criminals." Two hoodlums were arrested for stabbing a Chinaman to the heart. One was sentenced to the states prison for a term of years, and the other was sent to the asylum, from which he escaped immediately afterwards and has never been caught."

It is but right to say that the higher and better classes in San Francisco discountenance in the strongest manner these outrages upon the Chinese. Where, however, such are likely to occur it is proper to take extreme pre- caution to prevent them, and when proved guilty to punish severely the parties who commit them. Up to this period instances of such conduct have been unknown in British Columbia, but among the young, idle and disso- lute they follow as the natural outcrop of the continued abuse of any particular class in a community. The " hoodlum " under such circum- stances not only indulges his natural or acquired depravity, but conceives that he is doing something to gain the public approbation. A taste for brutality is engendered-violation of the law is encouraged-and the depraved are led to believe that they become the exponents of public opinion.

International law requires that if these people are permitted to come into the country, they should be protected as long as they are obedient to its laws. If the Parliament, in the public interest, enacts that they shall not come, then the difficulty is avoided ; but if the Parliament permits them to come, they have an equal claim to the protection of the law that the subjects of the country have.

The Chinese in British Columbia have no official or public representa- tive to whom (as is the case with other foreigners). they can apply, when attacked as a class. No consul, to communicate with the local authorities in his representative capacity and demand for them the rights and privi- leges due to all foreigners. This is important, because to the observer of current events it is manifest that the continued agitation against the Chinese in British Columbia is creating a tendency to commit outrages similar to those mentioned as having occurred in San Francisco. When brought within the courts of law, the delinquents would be punished as the law directs ; but it is desirable that some one in an official capacity should be there to initiate proceedings for redress on the victim's behalf. Such outrages are not only inhuman and unchristian, but are a disgrace to

the administration of justice in a British country, and it is to avoid the possibility of such occurrences that it is deemed proper to call the atten- tion of the Privy Council to the subject.

Equally incumbent is it that they should be protected against the ruf- fians of their own countrymen, who for mercenary purposes endeavor to Highbinders. thwart among them the carrying out of the laws and the administration of justice in the country to which they have come. The characters known as " highbinders " have already been described.

Protected against

Driven out of San Francisco, they have crowded into British Columbia, and at the late assizes in the City of Victoria, in December last, seriously and dangerously interfered with the administration of the criminal law, Victoria Assizes, by threatening the Chinese interpreters and witnesses who had been sum- December, 1884. moned by the Crown in the prosecutions pending before the Court. The presiding Judge with promptness and decision punished the offenders, but it was an evil which had not before been recognized, and which it was necessary to restrain with a strong hand. Here again the difficulty is met, that there is no official or recognized authority to whom reference can be made, who is familiar with the language and customs of these people ; who from his official diplomatic position, being above suspicion, can always offer the courts and local authorities explanations which may be relied on, and thus prevent the miscarriage of the law. There is no reason to doubt the application of the law as coming from the local au- thorities, but there may be grave doubts as to the true state of facts to which the application is to be made.

If it be desirable to do justice to these people as to all others in the community, it is desirable that that justice should be complete and effi- cient.

It may not be unimportant, as confirmatory of the observations hitherto made, that the presence of the Chinese in British Columbia has not interfered with the incoming of white settlers, to state that by a late return from the Dominion immigration agent at Victoria, addressed to the Department of Agriculture under date of 16th December, 1884, it appears that the number of white immigrants who have come into the Province since the opening of the railway belt in June, 1883, to Novem ber 30th, 1884, a period of 18 months, was 11,370, while the number of Chinese were 4,086, a marked diminution of the latter in number from those who came in 1882 and 1883, when the demand for railway labor was at its height, thus giving grounds for the impression that the supply. will not exceed the demand, and that the evil of their incoming, if an evil, will cease as the inducement ceases

In support of the above observations, we find in the Colonist newspaper, published in the city of Victoria, on the 31st December, the following strong contradiction in fact of the statement several times made by some labor. of the witnesses before the Committee of the House of Commons in 1879, and before the present Commission in 1884, namely : that ample white labor was obtainable in the Province for the necessities of the country. In that paper from the 22nd of September last is a standing advertise- ment from Graham & Busk, contractors for the Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway, with schedule of wages for white labor as follows :

Total 15,456.

Want of white

"ESQUIMALT AND NANAIMO RAILWAY.

CONTRACTORS' OFFICE, VICTORIA, Sept. 22, 1884.

SCHEDULE OF WAGES FOR WHITE LABOR

ON THE ESQUIMALT AND NANAIMO RY.

Rock Foremen. $3 00 to $4 00 per day

2 50 to 3 00

Earth Foremen.

Bridge Foremen. 3 50 to 4 00

3 00

Bridge Carpenters

Blacksmiths (firet-class) 3 50

Drillers

2 00 to 2 25

Laborers

1 75 to 2 00

Hewers

3 00

Choppers.

1 75 to 2 00

All outside labor, ten hours per day.

All carpenters to furnish their own chest-tools.

All employés to find themselves bed, board and lodging.

Boarding-houses will be convenient along the line; board, $4 per week.

It will not be compulsory for employés to board in the company's houses. Wages will be paid monthly, on the 15th of each month.

GRAHAM & BUSK, Contractors."

On the 31st December is this statement :

"CHINESE LABOR .- We understand that Messrs. Graham & Busk, con- tractors for the upper section of the Island Railway, finding it impossible to secure sufficient white labor to complete their contract on time, have been reluctantly compelled to arrange with the Tai Chong Company for a supply of Chinese labor."

Comment is unnecessary.

As bearing upon the suggested measure of restriction, it may also be appropriate to refer to the observations of Mr. Briggs, the President of the Immigration Association of California, when examined at San Fran- cisco in July last ; he says : " My opinion is that as laborers they must always play a part in any community, under certain restrictions. To what extent they can be utilized is a question we are not able to determine here, because we are a new community. We have had an experience of barely twenty-five years with them, and may be somewhat prejudiced against them, from the fact that their labor has been overdone-their numbers having increased more rapidly than we could utilize them. I believe this, while I would not care to express it publicly, because I am opposed to them, and was active in favor of the Restriction Act. I be- lieve that if the Restriction Act had been modified, so that a limited number of those people could have continued to come to this coast, we might have utilized them, and never have felt the opposition we feel to-day to the Chinese. I believe, that in our fruit interests it would now be an advantage to have even more than we have. I believe, that in some other industries, minor industries, the Chinese would play a part which would be more or less important, even to-day, if they were to continue to come. With that view, with the idea that we have had a scarcity of labor here, and will probably continue to have during some period of the year for the

66

next five years-because the industries are developing faster than the population is increasing-their presence would not be altogether undesi- rable."

Perhaps the most succinct, and in a general sense the most fair evidence Succinct view in their favor, is that given by Mr. Babcock at San Francisco, on July cisco. 26th, 1884. He says :

SAN FRANCISCO, July 26th, 1884.

WILLIAM F. BABCOCK, merchant.

Resided in San Francisco since 1852. In a new country cheap labor Cheap labor a is absolutely necessary. Effect of Chinese labor beneficial, and that beneficial effect will continue. Instead of driving out labor by cheap essity ; Chine labor beneficial. labor, cheap labor inereases the market for labor. Labor begets labor. On the advancement of California the effect of Chinese labor has been beneficial and has added materially to our wealth. The Chinese spend on an averaye twenty-five cents a day, perhaps nine hundred thousand or a million of dollars a month among us. They are a necessity, and Chinese a neces- to drive them out of the state would be a very great disadvantage, but sity ; but it would under certain rules and regulations to restrict this immigration would trict their immi- be proper to res- be very proper. We have not too many Chinese now, but I would not gration. overrun th country with them. They have not increased since 1865, and there is no danger of too great an influx. I do not think they have been a bar to white immigration from the East. The strong feeling against them arises from politicians, office-holders and foreigners. There They have not is no real competition or conflict between Chinese and white labor. The white immigra- been a bar to building of railways down in the valleys of California has opened the tion. country, settled it and drawn a white immigration to the coast. The southern country has been rapidly settled up, and all this is due to the building of the railways. Still, for certain reasons, I think it would be good policy to restrict the numbers coming in. But to do this would be in direct contravention of a treaty forced upon China by the trict their num- Americans. I was from 1854 to 1862 agent of the Pacific Mail Steam- bers. ship Company, and I have constant dealings with the Chinese, selling them silver, quicksilver, and articles of that kind, and I find them very clever merchants. I never lost a dollar with one of them in my life. I would trust them with ten or fifteen thousand dollars just as soon as I would any jobber in the city. Mr. Parrott, who did their bank- ing business for years, told me he had never lost a dollar of principal or interest through them. I have always found the Chinese a most quiet Honest, quiet, and industrious people. and industrious people, and quite as moral as the low class of whites. The Chinese will smoke opium and the whites will drink whiskey. I have been a large employer of Chinese labor. I think the employment of Chinese, so far from being injurious, is beneficial. Its effect on trade, as for instance, in the manufacture of cigars, is to enable people to smoke cigars at a less price than they would otherwise pay, and I think it is a good thing that they should have engrossed the washing of the commu- nity. In consequence of Chinese laundrymen the poorer classes change their inside clothing much oftener than they would otherwise do. The An advantage as cooks and waiters. Chinamen are a great advantage all through the state, acting as cooks laundrymen, and waiters. People in the country find a great difficulty in getting white servants to remain with them, whereas the Chinaman does not care where he goes. Rich Chinamen, if protected by our laws, would come here and bring their money, and we should see Chinamen buying lots and

Good policy to res-

from San Fran-

Their labor more desirable than white.

building houses. Chinese labor is more desirable than white labor from this point of view : the factories here can exist and make money by pay- ing for labor a dollar a day, the Chinamen finding themselves, and they can compete with the East, while if you brought white labor here and tention of remain- ing here. They have no in- gave two dollars a day the labor would disappear. Chinamen come here with the intention of returning to their own country, and I think it better that the country should be peopled with whites, but cheap labor in a new country is absolutely necessary, and we should have the cheapest labor we can get. A hundred years hence, when our descendants are living in California they will, marking what Chinese lahor has done for this coun- try, smile in derision at their ancestors' views on this question. We shall then, or earlier, be one hundred and fifty millions. There will probably Should not be enfranchised. be one or two million Chinese. I would not give them votes. I see no objection to having a non-voting population within a free commonwealth. The Chinese do not want to meddle with our politics ; they are the most quiet, industrious and best people I ever saw. They are the most valuable laborers I ever saw in my life. Up at Clear Lake silver mines, in which I am largely interested, we employ a considerable number of Chinamen, and it would be impossible to get along without them. They Clean and all edu- bathe every night and are very elean, and are all educated, compulsory education being a Chinese institution. They are a bright, clever, intel- ligent people. I am not speaking of the very lowest, such as we have in California. Those here pay their debts ten times more promptly than white people. The business men are shrewd, smart, intelligent, bright men. They are capable of managing large undertakings.

Most valuable laborers.

cated ; bright, clever, intelligent people.

In conclusion, it may briefly be stated that in British Columbia there are three phases of opinion on this subject :

Ist. Of a well meaning, but strongly prejudiced minority, whom noth- ing but absolute exclusion will satisfy. -

2nd. An intelligent minority, who conceive that no legislation whatever is necessary-that, as in all business transactions, the rule of supply and demand will apply and the matter regulate itself in the ordinary course of events.

3rd. Of a large majority, who think there should be a moderate restric- tion, based upon police, financial and sanitary principles, sustained and en- forced by stringent local regulations for cleanliness and the preservation of health.

Concurring in this last named view, the undersigned Commissioner has in Chapter 9, thrown out some suggestions to that end, should Parliament at the present time deem legislation necessary.

All of which is respectfully submitted,

Ottawa, February 1st, 1885.

JOHN HAMILTON GRAY.

Commissioner.

SAN FRANCISCO, July 22nd, 1884.

ARTHUR R. BRIGGS, examined :

BRIGGS

Q. What is your full name ?- A. Arthur R. Briggs.

Q. You are president of the Immigration Association of California ?- A. Yes.

Q. How many years have you been connected with immigration in California ?- A. About three years in November.

Q. How long have you been in California ?- A. I came here ten years ago in June.

Q. Have you interests here separate from those connected with the immigration association ?- A. I have; have during the last seven years published a commercial newspaper in this city.

Q. Will you state the conclusions you have reached on the subject ?- A. Do you want it in the form of an interrogatory ?

Q. Just state the conclusions to which you have come ?- A. Well, in Chinese immigra- reference to immigration to this state, my opinion is, after having studied white immigra- tion a bar to the matter carefully, that the immigration of Chinese to California has tion. been a bar to the immigration of white people from the eastern and western states and from Europe, and that as long as it continues it will act as an obstacle to white immigration. My impression also is that the continued immigration of Chinese to this coast furnished simply a supply of manual labor without adding to the industrial resources of the state in the manner that white immigration would. I believe that we have suffered greatly by the increased numbers or by an excess in the numbers of these people in California and on the Pacific coast, which we were not able to utilize in our factories and industrial enterprises here.

Q. You have stated that the immigration of white settlers has been If influx had con- retarded. Do you think it has been retarded from the states of the Union tinued white im- migration would tirely. as well as from outside ?- A. Unquestionably. I think that the statistics show that immigration from the states of the United States-eastern, middle and western-had almost ceased, and would have ceased entirely if this influx of Chinese had continued. Perhaps I can show you what I mean by a few statistics. I have not time to put them into shape now, but I will put them into shape for you. I have some few statistics here. For instance, the excess of arrivals over departures in 1879 was 9,500, that is Chinese and all; in 1880, 4,100, and most of those were Chinese ; in 1882 there were 17,573 Chinese immigrants to this coast. The immigra- tion to this coast for 1883, according to the statement that I made here for one publication recently was about 24,000, the number of immigrants registered at our own office from the year ended May 31st last, shows a total of 9,680, most of them seekers after homes. These were registered at our immigration. Increase of white

P

?

office, and probably, not to exceed, one-third reached this city. We calculate that about one-third reach San Francisco, not to exceed that proportion. They begin to drop off at Los Angeles and continue to do so all the way to San Francisco, wherever they can find employment. Coming the other way they begin to drop off after reaching the Sierras, so that we get in this city perhaps one-third of the immigration, which is seeking home in this state.

White immigra- tion invited after was stopped.

Q. Do you attribute the increase in white immigration recently to the influx of Chinese legislation at Washington ? A. Not wholly. At the time this immigra- tion association was formed, as I said, we had scarcely any movement of white immigration here; in fact we were doing nothing to encourage immigration, because we had all the labor we could utilize. But the moment Congress was invoked to stop the influx of Chinese to the coast, then we began to circulate printed information relating to the state, showing its advantages and opportunities, and sent that broadcast into Europe and east of the Rocky Mountains in this country, and thereby induced a larger immigration than would have come otherwise. Unquestionably the effect of the Restriction Act was toward the increase of that immigration, because we could say to these people that the Chinese immigration had ceased, and they no longer were in danger of coming into competition with coolie labor direct from China, that was constantly coming at the rate of 15,000 or 20,000 per year.

Restriction Act cause of increase.

Credit due also to organized effort.

Q. So that not only had you the restrictive legislation but you put forward greater efforts to secure immigration ? A. It is not fair to say it was all due to the Restriction Act, because this immigration association represents the first organized effort that has ever been made to encourage immigrants into this state. There have been desultory efforts of a private character for many years, all signal failures ; but this is an organized effort, and to this some credit is due for this increase in white immigra- tion.

White laborer a consumer and a producer ; excess of Chinaman's wages go out of the State.

Q. You stated yesterday that the Chinaman worked for a considerably lower wage than the white immigrant. Do you consider that the state will get an equivalent for the difference between the amount paid to the Chinese worker and the amount that would have to be paid to the white worker ?- A. It is my impression that the state derives more benefit than the difference between these wages, for this reason : the white laborer comes here generally with his family, supports his family. He is a consumer as well as a producer. He rears his family, spends his money at home, and thereby retains the money in the country and developes the resources of the state. Whereas with the Chinaman any excess of wages or earnings over his necessary expenses for living, are taken directly from this state and from this country. It would seem to me that in considering the advantages between the Chinese laborer and the white laborer there is no such thing as a comparison. It is so overwhelmingly in favor of the white laborer, it would not bear comparison at all.

No comparison between Chinese and white labor- ers.

Q. That is the state of the case as it stands now ?- A. Yes. It appears so to me.

Chinese an im- portant factor in the development of the State up to a certain period.

Q. What has been the effect in the past of the employment of Chinese labor on the prosperity of this state ?- A. I think the Chinese have been a very important factor in the development of our public works, and in the development of the resources of the state up to a certain period. I

BRIGGS

think the time was when they were greatly needed, and did much good. We have outlived that day. The building of the overland railroads, and the interior roads, required a peculiar kind of labor ; laborers who would follow up the work and live in a very primitive way, board themselves, take care of themselves, without families ; labor that was always to be relied upon, and hence I believe the Chinese have done a great deal of Their labor always reliable, and must good to the state. I think we derived a peculiar advantage from their go into other chan- presence here in early days. But we have outlived that day ; we have nels. finished these works, and now this labor must go into other channels, other industries, into agriculture, viticulture, factories, etc., and take the Iplaces which otherwise would be filled with white laborers in the towns jand villages, and in the country, to an extent that almost prevents the whites from finding suitable employment. They now take the place of boys and girls that are growing up in this country. I believe that the peculiar ladvantage derived from this labor has been outgrown.

Outgrown ad vant ages derived from their labor.

Q. Do I understand you to say that if these great public works were Would not wel- 'still in futuro, you would then welcome Chinese immigration ?- A. No ; migration. I do not believe I should welcome it. I can see that it might be utilized to advantage, but the question then would come up what to do with that labor after these works were completed; that is the question we have been called upon to solve.

come Chinese im-

Q. If they come here merely single men, which it is said they do, It never recedes; where is the difficulty about the tide receding ?- A. The peculiarity of a foothold they where they obtain Chinese immigration is that it never recedes. The Chinese are a people of remain.

conquest, and wherever they obtain a foothold there they remain. That is the history of all the Pacific Islands ; that is the history of all countries where they have obtained a footing.

Q. Do I understand you to say that in manufacturing work, white men Their labor re- cannot compete with them ?- A. I think that day has gone by ; the time garded nearly as was when they could not. Chinese to-day do not labor for as low wages labor. as they did ten years ago. Their labor is regarded nearly as valuable as white labor, particularly in piece work ; they earn as much as whites. And many are laborers on their own account.

Q. Then, after a time, the objection from the working men would disap- pear ?- A. So far as wages are concerned it does not hold as good to the extent that it did in the early stage of the introduction of this labor.

Q. You have never tried the experiment of making them settlers in the country ?- A. No.

Q. Would you think it desirable to try that experiment ? A. They can only become settlers by purchase under the present law.

Q. But suppose they were allowed and encouraged to live here as other If they came with settlers with their wives and families ?- A. If the Chinese were to come their families much of the pre- to this coast with their families I think much of the feeling against them judice against might be removed. If it were possible for them to come here to remain them might be removed. permanently and maintain homes and families, so that their children and their children's children would become Americans, I do not believe that the same objection which is found to-day would ever have existed. But They huddle to- the fact is that they huddle together in droves, like animals in their habita- gether in droves. and have no homes tion, and have no such things as homes; they are simply livers.

valuable as white

BRIGGS

Moral effect hard to explain. Q. This huddling together, what effect has it ? What is the moral' effect of their huddling together on the community in which they live ?. A. The moral effect is very hard to explain. I question if the Chinese have any moral standard, and I believe, from my experience with them, that they are governed by a question of policy ; that they know nothing of the moral sentiments of right and wrong. The Chinese are actuated simply, by the desire to accumulate money.

Large numbers would have a de- Q. What I mean is this : How do they affect the morals of the com- moralizing effect. munity on which they are for the time being engrafted ? A. You can readily understand that an aggregation of these people, who are single men, and who bring their females into their midst to use as prosti- tutes, would certainly have a very demoralizing effect on any community.' The young men of the community are often contaminated by associa- tion with Chinese women. As degrading as it may seem, there is little doubt that this influence is the source of many moral and physical wrecks. Aside from that, I do not know the presence of the Chinese has any moral effect here, unless it be that through the introduction of opium- smoking, which is a prevalent and growing habit, this vice becomes common with the lower classes of whites. The Chinese depreciate property in their vicinity, because of the manner in which they live, the manner they treat the buildings which they occupy. Their filthy habits and their manner of living in every way has that effect ; but as to the moral sentiment of the community, I do not know that it has very much effect, because there is not association sufficiently intimate to affect that.

Their presence depreciates pro- perty.

Q. Then, so far as your observation goes, the question would seem to be a politico-economic one altogether ?- A. Almost wholly.

Q. So that if we are to decide on the question whether it would be good or bad statesmanship to keep them out, you have to ask what their effect really is on the industrial development of the country ? . A. I think that is the key to the whole question.

Q. You mean that is the key to your position ?- A. Yes ; to the position taken by the people of this state.

A politico-econo- mic question more than moral.

Q. Your observation leads you to think that is the chief question ?- A. Yes ; I think it is more a politico-economic question than a moral one.

If Chinese labor had not been Q. If you look back in the history of California, to the time when these available it would great public works did not exist, would you not find that the bringing in have come from other sources. of Chinamen, for some time anyway, would have been a useful plan ? -A. I cannot say that, because I believe if the Chinese labor had not been available, that labor would have been brought here from other sources. I believe our public works would have been carried on as in the eastern states twenty-five years ago. True, it would have been more difficult and work might have been retarded, but future development of the country by them would have been of vast importance to the state, whereas with the Chinese, when the railroads were completed, their mission was ended.

Their mission ended after build- ing the railways.

Q. Have you not had a large amount of swamp land reclaimed ?- A. Comparatively little with them. That is a matter of no importance so far as their usefulness is concerned. They have been utilized to a cer- tain extent in that way, but that is not of so much importance as is the building of railroads and that sort of work.

5

Q. You think they played a very important part in the building of railroads ?- A. They did, assuredly.

Q. Did you read the testimony of the president of the Central Pacific Railroad before a committee of Congress in regard to swamp lands ?- A. Four years ago ?

Q. Yes, sir ?- A. Yes.

Q. Do you remember how emphatically he spoke of the impossibility of building the railroads without them ?- A. Yes.

Q. Do you think that was correct ?- A. I think his statements, or the statements of the railroad people, are entitled to great weight, because they have had the largest experience with Chinese labor in that work, and their experience is worth more than the opinion of a man who simply has, observation to guide him. I am bound to believe that men, who are thinking men, like Mr. Stanford, Mr. Crocker and Mr. Huntington, have good reasons for their opinion. They have expressed the belief within recent date, that the Chinese were the best laborers for the Chinese best public works to be had in this state. Nevertheless, I am not sufficiently informed to express an opinion as to whether the railroad companies here accomplished more in the prosecution of their work with a given number of Chinese laborers than the eastern or western railroad com- panies accomplished with white labor. The Union Pacific was built in the wilderness chiefly with white labor; the Central Pacific with Chinese labor.

Q. Did you see Mr. Crocker's evidence where he speaks of reclaimed swamp-land, and note the statement that they could not get white labor to do it because it was so severe and distasteful to them ? A. I saw that.

Q. But they were able to get Chinamen to do it, partly because Chi- nese labor was in abundance and partly because the Chinese worked under a hotch-potch contract ; did you see that ? A. Yes.

Q. What is your impression of that evidence ?- A. That might have When railroads been true at the time, but the labor conditions have materially changed were building white labor was within a few years. At the time these railroads were building and engaged in min- marsh-land was being reclaimed, mining was the great business of this ing. coast, and the white laborers were very generally engaged in that occupation. The Chinese were not in that at all, or so few as to be of no moment. That has almost entirely changed, and now the white people have been obliged to find employment in agriculture, or as day laborers, or in factories, and to-day are willing to do precisely the work which the Chinamen did then.

Q. But travel back to the time when this swamp-land was unreclaimed Chinese desirable and the white men were all mining, surely the Chinamen fulfilled an im- at that time. portant industrial necessity here then ?- A. Yes. We invited those people here ; we not only invited them but we welcomed them. We believed they were desirable, and they were at the time.

Q. Has their effect on the development of the country disappointed your expectations at that time or has it been realized ?- A. I question if many men looked so far into the future as to form an opinion as to

laborers for pub- lic works.

6

what the future of their residence here would be. I do not think that was seriously thought of ; but the fact of the unanimous sentiment against' Theirintroduction further Chinese immigration into this state, is almost conclusive that. disappointed carly expectations. their introduction has disappointed early expectations.

Q. What is the possibility of their residence here if they have no; families ?- A. Nothing beyond what you see to-day, in my opinion. They do not come with the idea of remaining. They leave their own country; with the unalterable determination to return dead or alive to their native land.

Q. You do not anticipate then they will become more powerful here ?! -A. Not under the Restriction Act. They would have become more powerful with an influx of 15,000 to 20,000 a year. They would have taken such a position with regard to the industrial interests of this coast. as would have been a permanent bar to the further introduction of white labor.

Q .- I understand your position then to be : that there was a period in. the history of California when they were useful, but it is now gone, and it is well to have a Restriction Act now, in order to prevent them taking up such a position as would almost make a Chinese district of this part of the Union ?- A. I would not put it in as strong language as you do.

Q. I wish to have it in your own language ?- A. I would say then that there was a period when they did perform an important part ; that that condition has been gradually changing, and is changing now. I believe they perform an important part here to-day, which we would feel very sensibly if they were excluded wholly ; but with a hundred thousand of these people here I believe we have all we can utilize for years to come.

Q. Suppose you exclude them wholly. Many persons, as you are aware, would wish to drive them out; what would be the consequence of exclud- ing them entirely ?- A. That would be a serious matter to this state ; it would almost ruin some of the industries here and prevent progress in others for years to come.

Q. To exclude them ? A. Yes.

Q. Then they must play an important part here still ? A. They do, but less important than ten years ago.

Q. You spoke yesterday of the mode of employing them, Mr Briggs. I through agencies. understand that mode to be : they employ them through agencies, through the agency of one or more individuals ? A. Chiefly.

Q. What has that arisen from ?- A. From two causes, in my opinion : one from their inability to speak the English language ; the other and important one is from the fact that they come here under contract to the six companies, and are directed by the six companies, and employment is secured through them.

Q. Do you think that their fear of being unfairly dealt with, if they acted independently and alone, has made them, as individuals, seek work through some important contractor in that way ?- A. I think not; because there was no feeling of that kind in the early days of this state.

BRIGGS

Q. They have not, then, been treated at any time unfairly ?- A. Yes, in rare cases ; but the community as a whole has not treated them un- kindly. We have had an element here - the sand-lot element - that raised the cry of " The Chinese must go"-that is the sand-lot jargon ; but as a whole I believe it has been exaggerated.

Q. As a bargain-maker what is the Chinaman's character ? If he makes Keen judge of pro- a contract how does he fulfil his contract ?- A. He is a keen judge of pro- treated will keep perty ; if properly perty, and makes a very close bargain. If properly treated he keeps his his bargain. contract to the letter.

Q. And as a worker ; is he a good or bad workman ?- A. Good ; faith- Good, faithful ful ; does his work, nothing more nor less. He cannot be hastened, and is workman. very exacting of his rights. Once offended, or suspicious all is not right, he will not be persuaded to continue work, and confidence cannot be restored.

Q. Does he make any progress financially ?- A. Yes, sir.

Q. Does he save money ?- A. So far as we are able to see here they are Generally frugal. generally frugal.

Q. Having saved money, what does he do with it ?- A. Sends it to Sends money to China. China.

Q. Does he invest it in any reproductive works ?- A. No, sir ; there may be rare instances, but it is very rare. A few of the Chinese own property in Chinatown, but very little outside.

Q. You told us yesterday, Mr. Briggs, that they were accustomed to Chinese as cigar save money, and were frugal and became manufacturers and went into the manufacturers. boot and shoe business ?- A. There are industries here almost entirely in the hands of Chinese. For instance, the Chinese were at first employed by the cigar manufacturers- they are very expert at whatever they do with their hands. Having learned their trade as cigar manufacturers, and having accumulated some money, you find occasionally one of these men who has invested his money in a manufactory. He does not make the plant, but rents a building, and buys the raw material and produces these goods. He utilizes his money in that way, and to-day they have obtained almost exclusive control of the manufacture of cigars in the state. That Control the manu- is to say, cigars are made almost wholly by Chinese workmen, and many facture almost exclusively. of the factories are in the hands of Chinese, and owned by them. They do the same thing in tin-ware, boots and shoes, and clothing. These are the Other manufac- principal occupations of the Chinese where they work on their own turers carried on , account. by them.

Q. In these directions they must have swelled the stream of industrial development ?- A. In that direction they have ; the question is whether the whites would not have swelled it still more.

Q. There is no question but there was a time when the whites were not to the fore to do the big work ?- A. Not any question of that ; no Chinese were an question but that they were important factors at one period, and quite a important factor. factor even now.

Q. If these Chinese are kindly dealt with by the state in which they are, and the people treat them well, do you not think having industrious and frugal habits you speak of, they must be a people capable of playing a useful part in a large community ?- A. That is an indefinite question.

8

As laborers they must play a part.

Their labor has · been overdone.

Q. I intended to make it indefinite. I do not wish to suggest anything to your mind. I do not want to suggest the answer. I would like to know, whether you think, in an Anglo-Saxon community, having the qualities you describe, evidently most admirable in some respects, that they are capable of playing a useful part ? A. My opinion is that as laborers they must always play a part in any community under certain restrictions. To what extent they can be utilized is a question we are not able to determine here, because we are a new community ; we have had an experience of barely twenty-five years with them, and may be somewhat prejudiced against them from the fact that their labor has been overdone ; their numbers having increased more rapidly than we could utilize them.

If Restriction Act had been modified Q. You say they could be utilized under certain restrictions ; what limiting a few to restrictions ? A. I believe this-while I would not care to express it come they might have been utilized. publicly, because I am opposed to them, and was active in favor of the Restriction Act-I believe that if the Restriction Act had been modified, so that a limited number of those people could have continued to come to this coast, we might have utilized them, and never have felt the opposi- tion we feel to-day to the Chinese. I believe that in our fruit interests it would now be an advantage to have even more than we have. I believe that in some other industries, minor industries, the Chinese would play a part which would be more or less important even to-day if they were to continue to come. With that view, with the idea that we have had a scarcity of labor here, and will probably continue to have during some period of the year, for the next few years, because the industries are de- veloping faster than the population is increasing, their presence would not be altogether undesirable. We are putting forth efforts to secure white labor, and I do not believe the Chinese would play as important a part as white labor if we can secure it. I think the advantage to us, and to the coast, is so greatly in favor of the whites that we can better afford to suffer somewhat from a want of supply, than to encourage them, and still put an obstacle in the way of the whites coming here.

Industries deve- loping faster than population increasing.

Advantage to the coast greatly in favor of white labor.

Q. What I understand you then to say is, that you think the labor, if properly regulated, would be very useful ?- A. It might be, but I cannot believe it would prove ultimately beneficial or desirable.

Q. You are connected with a newspaper called the Grocer and Country Merchant ?- A. Yes.

Q. That brings you in contact with a large number of business men ?- A. Yes, constantly.

Q. And enables you, of course, to know pretty well the opinion of the community ?- A. Yes.

Chinese band themselves to- Q. The business men, the employers of labor, those who employ Chi- gether and strikes nese, how do they feel towards this question ?- A. Up to a certain period are frequent among them. manufacturers seemed to be greatly in favor of Chinese labor, but the Chi- nese have now begun to realize the value of their services, and have banded themselves together very much as the whites do in trade organ- izations, and strikes among those people are as frequent and as arbi- trary as among the whites, so the feeling that there was in their favor. Disposition to dispense with their services. for some years has been greatly changed, and I believe there is a disposi- tion now on the part of manufacturers here to dispense with their ser- vices as rapidly as they can get white men.

BRIGGS

Q. In fact the manufacturers, so long as they could get them cheap, were willing to have them, but now they propose to have the whites when they cannot get Chinese cheap ?- A. That is about the case. So far as the Among business business men are concerned generally, the feeling was never very kindly very kind towards men feeling never towards them, because the business public employ very few of them ; it is them. only in special departments.

Q. Manufactures ?- A. Yes. Manufacturing departments.

Q. In domestic life are they not utilized to a considerable extent as cooks ?- A. Yes, very largely.

Q. As house-servants ?- A. Yes.

Q. Have you observed them in that position ?- A. I have.

Q. What is their character ? Are they clean and efficient as domestic Clean and reliable servants ?- A. For many years they were about the only domestic servants as house-servants. we had here, and my observation is that generally they are quite as efficient, and as useful, as white servants, and quite as reliable.

Q. What about their personal character ? Are they cleanly or repulsive or what ?- A. Those Chinese servants who enter homes are cleanly in their habits ; there is no objection to them on that score of uncleanliness.

Q. While white help in houses is scarce, would it not seem to you to Suicidal to permit be very important, especially to the women of a community, that this sup- with children. them to associate ply of domestic labor should not be interfered with ?- A. The moral influence of Chinese upon children is a wretched thing, and if a family has children it would be almost suicidal to permit the Chinese servants to associate with the children, or to have charge of them. I think the objec- tion to them is made on that score as much as any other.

Q. Do these Chinamen show none of that reverence for childhood that No reverence for grown white men feel ?- A. No, sir. childhood.

Q. They display a kind of sexual irreverence for childhood ?- A. Yes, Women have no sir ; they have no regard for woman anyway. A Chinese child, if a female, position. excites no parental regard. If a Chinaman has a boy he is proud of him, but women have no position with the Chinese, and they entertain very little reverence for a child if a female. Instances are not rare where these Chinese male ser- male servants have debauched children, and with their lack of moral vants debauch children. standard the only restraint would be fear of detection.

Q. You think the moral effect counterbalances their economic utility ? Moral effect coun- -A. When taken into homes I do most assuredly. I think very few economic utility. terbalances their white people would be willing to let the Chinese associate with their chil- dren in that way, though many employ them as house-servants.

Q. In your experience have the Chinese shown any tendency to be- They do not tend come domesticated, to become a part of the community, that is do they to homogeneity. tend to homogeneity instead of diversity ?- A. I think not. My experience with them is that they start with the idea that their civilization is vastly superior to all others, hence there is no incentive for them to become Americanized. They have no local attachments ; they never form local They look upon all attachments here; hence there is no incentive to become citizens or a part races as inferigt. of our people. They look on all other races as inferior to themselves, and

BRIGGS

for that reason adhere to their own practices and their own habits of living, the same as in their clothing. They never give up their style of clothing.

Q. I saw some on the railroad who had ?- A. Yes, but the Chinaman always wears his queue ; it may be coiled up under his hat but it remains all the same ; and as to his clothing he adopts the ancient custom imme- diately on his return to the city when he can be among his friends.

Q. A few generations ago our grandfathers wore queues. You can see the statue of an English king with a queue not far from Trafalgar square ? -A. That is true, but there was no superstition connected with it. It was mainly the custom of the time.

Chinese immigra- tion has stimulat- ed trade with Asia.

Q. The trade with Asia, Mr. Briggs, ought to be a very important thing to the Pacific coast. Has the Chinese immigration increased that ? -A. Yes, it has stimulated it ; both the importations and exportations. There is no question it has stimulated trade.

Q. It has stimulated the Asiatic trade ? A. There is no doubt about that.

Chinese a moral , blight.

Q. Is there anything that occurs to yourself that I have not asked you-any other point you think of importance as bearing on the desirability or undesirability of Chinese immigration to the Pacific coast either in Canada or here ?- A. Well, the aggregation of these Chinese in any city or town, in my opinion, is a sort of moral blight, because they never improve anything. When they take possession of a building, that building becomes unfit for occupancy by any other people except Chinese.

Q

After they have once occupied it ?- A. Yes, from their uncleanliness.

There is an uncleanliness about everything they touch ; where they live; their manner of living is so filthy.

They disregard all the laws of health.

Q. Is it so virulent ? Is there a virus about their mode of living which will not succumb to soap and water ?- A. They live in an atmosphere of smoke ; they never paint ; they never whiten; they never clean if they can help it. They have to do it under the sanitary regulations to a certain extent, but you can form a better idea of their habits by going into Chinatown than any one can give you by talking. They disregard all the laws of health as we understand them.

Policy to utilize eir labor as they are here and res- gration. Q. We intend to do that. Will you state, Mr Briggs, what policy is the one that strikes you as the sound one to pursue where the Chinese trictfurther immi- have become settled and incorporated as a part of the community ?- A. Where they have become incorporated as a part of the community, speaking of this community and our experience here, wise policy would seem to lie in the utilization of their labor, rather than the expulsion of these people, and in the restriction of further immigration.

Restrictive legis- lation has been in that direction.

Q. Do you think that the restrictive legislation of Congress is working in that direction ? A. It is most assuredly. I think the Restriction Act has satisfied the demand of the conservative element in the community. The dissatisfaction in regard to it comes largely from those who are still clinging to the old idea that the Chinese should be driven out, rather than that immigration should be restricted.

BRIGGS

Q. Do I understand then that the policy which is being pursued and of which you approved is to encourage white immigration, and allow the White immigra- present Chinese settlement to die a natural death ? A. Yes. I believe aged; the Chinese tion to be encour- that in the course of time, by removal and death, these people will to die a natural death. become so few in numbers that their presence will cease to be a serious objection, and that by giving encouragement to the whites we shall be able to supply their places with white people.

Q. What is the relative value of white labor and Chinese labor in this White labor and market ?- A. For house-servants the average wages paid to the Chinaman is about the same as to the white girls and to white women. In piece- work, in our cigar factories and other factories, they are paid substantially the same. In some other departments there is probably a slight difference in favor of the whites, but I think the difference that existed years ago has been largely. overcome, and that the Chinese to-day receive about the same wages as whites, or most of them.

Chinese labor paid about the same.

Q. As an average, do they command the same wages ?-- A. Scarcely ; Slight difference there may be a slight difference in favor of the whites.

Q. About what per cent ? A. Possibly ten, in rare cases twenty per cent.

Q. Do they seem capable of becoming directors of labor ?- A. It is impossible for me to tell that. My impression is that the foreman is generally connected in some way with the Chinese six companies, or is of a higher order than the ordinary Chinaman. He comes here perhaps with some means, or is supplied by one of the companies.

Q. How far are they able to organize and lay out work ?- A. I perhaps Many of them did not answer your question, but I understood it nevertheless. You want able to direct and to know how far they are apt as employers of labor. I think so far as manage labor. that is concerned many of them are able to direct and would manage their labor well.

Q. They are skilful ?- A. Yes.

Q. Intellectually do they appear to be inferior to the laboring classes Not a reading peo- of the white people ?- A. That is a very difficult question to answer. They ple, but read and write in their own are not a reading people, though most of them read and write in their language. own language, but they have no newspapers, they have no books. They appear to have means of information, though how that information is disseminated it is impossible to tell. They are non-communicative; you never can ascertain anything from a Chinaman. In their amusements or intercourse with whites, the majority of them exhibit a very low order of Low order of in- telligence ; little gress. intelligence. They certainly show little capacity for progress, but appear capacity for pro- content to continue always in one channel. They are certainly the most inhuman of all people unless it be the uncivilized races. They will leave their own friends and people to die of neglect and starvation if they are Totally indifferent sick, and seem totally indifferent to suffering. to suffering.

Subsequently the Secretary received the following :-

DEAR SIR,

A's supplementary to and in support of my testimony touching the advantage to this coast resulting from the Restriction Act, to prevent

in favor of whites.

further immigration of Chinese, I beg to hand you the appended statement covering a period of four years, viz. : 1880 to 1883 inclusive. I am, dear Sir, Yours truly, ARTHUR R. BRIGGS, President I. A. C.

1880

Arrived.

Departed.

Excess of

Arrivals.

Excess of

Departures.

Excess of

Arrivals.

Chinese

5,950

5,252

698

40,990

37,427

4,611

1,048

3,563

1881

Whites and other than Chinese overland ....

47,107

30,891 16,216

670

2,301

1,631

Chinese.

18,561

7,424

11,137

66,338

40,616

27,353

1,631

25,722

1882

Whites and other than Chinese overland ....

58,113

37,113

21,000

Chinese

93,182

53,804

39,378

39,378

1883

Whites and other than Chinese overland ....

77,022

38,133 38,889

"

" by Steam Ship.

2,355 3,536

4,336

6,541

1,981 3,005

Chinese

82,913

49,010 38,889 1

4,986

33,903

Whites and other than Chinese overland ....

34,280 30,367

3,913

by Steam Ship.

760

1,808

1,048

" by Steam Ship.

7,665 27,404

6,860

9,831

805 17,573

" by Steam Ship.

BABCOCK

SAN FRANCISCO, July 26th, 1884.

WILLIAM F. BABCOCK, merchant.

Resided in San Francisco since 1852. In a new country cheap labor Cheap labor a is absolutely necessary. Effect of Chinese labor beneficial, and that labor beneficial. beneficial effect will continue. Instead of driving out labor by cheap labor, cheap labor increases the market for labor. Labor begets la- bor. On the advancement of California the effect of Chinese labor has been beneficial and has added materially to our wealth. The Chinese spend on an average twenty-five cents a day, perhaps nine hundred thous- and or a million of dollars a month among us.

They are a necessity, Chinese a neces-

and to drive them out of the state would be a very great disadvantage, but under certain rules and regulations to restrict this immigration would trict their immi-

be very proper. We have not too many Chinese now, but I would not overrun the country with them. They have not increased since 1865, and there is no danger of too great an influx. I do not think they have

been a bar to white immigration from the East. The strong feeling They have not against them arises from politicians, office-holders and foreigners. There white immigra- been a bar to is no real competition or conflict between Chinese and white labor. The tion. building of railways down in the valleys of California has opened the country, settled it and drawn a white immigration to the coast. The southern country has been rapidly settled up, and all this is due to the building of the railways. Still, for certain reasons, I think it would be good policy to restrict the numbers coming in. But to do this Good policy to ros- would be in direct contravention of a treaty forced upon China by the trict their num- bers. Americans. I was from 1854 to 1862 agent of the Pacific Mail Steam- ship Company, and I have constant dealings with the Chinese, selling them silver, quicksilver, and articles of that kind, and I find them very clever merchants. I never lost a dollar with one of them in my. life. I would trust them with ten or fifteen thousand dollars just as soon as I would any jobber in the city. Mr. Parrott, who did their banking business for years, told me he had never lost a dollar of principal or in- terest through them. I have always found the Chinese a most quiet and Honest, quiet, and. industrious people, and quite as moral as the low class of whites. The industrious people. Chinese will smoke opium and the whites will drink whiskey. I have been a large employer of Chinese labor. I think the employment of Chinese, so far from being injurious, is beneficial. Its effect on trade, as for instance, in the manufacture of cigars, is to enable people to smoke cigars at a less price than they would otherwise pay, and I think it is a good thing that they should have engrossed the washing of the commu- nity. In consequence of Chinese laundrymen the poorer classes change An advantage as their inside clothing much oftener than they would otherwise do. The laundrymen cooks and waiters. Chinamen are a great advantage all through the state, acting as cooks and waiters. People in the country find a great difficulty in getting white servants to remain with them, whereas the Chinaman does not care where he goes. Rich Chinamen, if protected by our laws, would come here and bring their money, and we should see Chinamen buying lots and building houses. Chinese labor is more desirable than white labor from Their labor moro this point of view : the factories here can exist and make money by pay- desirable than white. ing for labor a dollar a day, the Chinamen finding themselves, and they can compete with the East, while if you brought white labor here and gave two dollars a day the labor would disappear. Chinamen come here They have no in- with the intention of returning to their own country, and I think it better tention of remain- ing here. that the country should be peopled with whites, but cheap labor in a new country is absolutely necessary, and we should have the cheapest labor.

necessity ; Chinese

sity ; but it would,, be proper to ros-

gration.

BABCOCK

we can get. A hundred years hence, when our descendants are living in California they will, marking what Chinese labor has done for this coun- try, smile in derision at their ancestors' views on this question. We shall then, or earlier, be one hundred and fifty millions. There will Should not be enfranchised. probably be one or two million Chinese. I would not give them votes. I see no objection to having a non-voting population within a free common- wealth. The Chinese do not want to meddle with our politics; they are the most quiet, industrious and best people I ever saw. They are the most Most valuable laborers. valuable laborers I ever saw in my life. Up at Clear Lake silver mines, in which I am largely interested, we employ a considerable number of Chinamen, and it would be impossible to get along without them. Clean and all edu- They bathe every night and are very clean, and are all educated, compul- clever, intelligent sory education being a Chinese institution. They are a bright, clever, in- cated ; bright, telligent people. I am not speaking of the very lowest, such as we have in California. Those here pay their debts ten times more promptly than white people. The business men are shrewd, smart, intelligent, bright men. They are capable of managing large undertakings.

people.

cox.

Eleven years connected with police force in San Francisco. For the last Chinese more criminal than white people. four years paid special attention to Chinatown. The Chinese have amongst them a greater number of criminals than white people, in proportion. A case came before the police of kidnapping, where the woman swore she was to be sold, and he could, if necessary, supply a copy of the evidence. All his information would lead to the belief that it was a common practice. Revolting crimes. Cases of most revolting crime came before them. One instance of which all details could, if necessary, be supplied, was that of a man who cut out the penis of another who refused to submit to his degrading desires, and was sentenced to the state's prison for a term of years. They have taught They teach whites to smoke opium. white men and women, and boys and girls, to smoke opium, and many ar- rests of whites in these places have been made, and they have been brought down and fined and imprisoned. In the case of the regular opium-smoker, when he is kept a day or two in the cells without a smoke, he is regularly doubled-up like a man after a dreadful debauch wanting a Women corrupt young boys. drink-troubled with cramps. There can be no doubt that the women cor- rupt the young boys in a way which the white prostitutes are not chargeable with, by allowing them, for a few cents, to gratify prurient curiosity. As to opium-smoking-it is like drinking. Some Chinese don't smoke, but in the most respectable restaurants the pipe is there for those who wish to use it, and in the most respectable houses. Those were all tenement houses Expert as thieves, where we saw them packed like sardines. They are expert thieves, shop-lift- shop-lifters and burglars ; noto- rious perjurers. ers and burglars. His (Cox's) experience for the last four years led him to the belief that they are a detriment to the community. They are no- torious perjurers. They had made charges to him against each other of unnatural crimes, but he took no notice of it because he could place no reliance on their word, and was afraid black-mail was intended. They had information to the effect that Chinamen evading the Restriction Act were coming across the line from British Columbia down by the way of Portland. They are notorious kidnappers. Five are now in the state prison for kidnap- Kidnapping for purposes of prosti- tution. ping Chinese women for the purpose of selling them. There are now two reports in the chief's office of Chinese children stolen; and, besides, one woman held before the Superior Court for kidnapping-stealing a little

COX

makes no progress among them.

girl for the purpose of selling her into prostitution. There is a Catholic school and a Methodist school, and one or two other religious seminaries, but it was his belief that Christianity makes no progress among them. Christianity The schools, in his belief, are simply attended for the purpose of learning English. One of the last men sent to the state's prison was one claiming to be a Christian, and who robbed the young lady who had been teaching him for two years and a half of $140. The young lady is a daughter of J. W. Deering, Esq., of 819 California street, San Francisco. He had now in hands-the cases came up on Monday-a conspiracy, two men for robbery and one man against whom there are two charges for murder. " You saw," said Mr. Cox, "when visiting the quarter, the murderous Murderous weapons, knives, stilettos, bars of iron, which they carry up their sleeves, weapons. which we showed you, and which were taken from them by the dozen when we make a raid on them in the theatre." I believe one of the reasons why they keep their places so close and warm is that even the expelled smoke of the opium may be again inhaled. The thing is so valuable. It is worth from $18 to $20 per pound. I know to my own knowledge of a man marrying a woman and then placing her in a house of prostitution. When Marrying a a woman tries to get her liberty they bring a charge against her of poses of prostitu- woman for pur- larceny of the jewelry on her person. To-day, a fellow wanted the tion. steamer going to China stopped, in order to get ashore a woman whom he charged with leaving the country with intent to defraud her creditors. They trump up all kinds of charges against each other. A case occurred Charges trumped this week-you may have seen it in the papers. A woman was arrested other. up against each on a charge by two Chinamen, and immediately these two Chinamen were charged with burglary committed at ten o'clock that morning ; but they had been in the company of the police officer since 8 o'clock a.m. The last case of leprosy I saw was eighteen months ago. Avan got one a few days ago. He got three within the last ten days.

Q. We saw no cases of leprosy, and we went into very likely places, the Leprosy. worst in town ?- A. No.

Q. Then the reports we have seen in the papers that a great many of them were thus afflicted, cannot be true ?- A. No.

Q. Is there anything else that occurs to you that would throw light on Chinese as " boy- the question of Chinese immigration ?- A. No, unless that they are cotters." inveterate gamblers, and given to boycotting. Two days ago they boycotted a poor apple woman who had informed on a Chinaman for passing a counterfeit coin. They sometimes placard all Chinatown denouncing a person or a house ; sometimes even the theatre, and menacing trouble if it is patronized.

E. L. SULLIVAN, examined : SULLIVAN.

I have been in California since 1849, and was collector at this port Chinese an injury. from the Ist of August, 1880, until the 15th of May, 1884. At first we welcomed the Chinese, but after some time I became convinced they were an injury. During the time I was collector they gave me great trouble with false certificates and information.

Q. What do you mean by false certificates ?- A. Well, they would Forged certifi- bring forged certificates that they had been in America before cates. and would claim a right to land, the Restriction Act allowing those who had been in the United States to return. Merchants wcre

SULLIVAN

allowed to come in whether they had been here or not before, and so laboring men would come up to my office with a silk dress thrown over their blouse and when we opened it we found they were laborers. Constant were the appeals from the decision of the surveyor of this port, until at last I was forced to say to the consul the decision of the sur- veyor must be regarded as my decision. Not only was Chinese testimony suborned but I found the same three white men coming up in every case.

Testimony suborned.

Q. But their desire to evade the Restriction Act would not prove that they do not contribute to the wealth of the commuity ? A. We have no desire to have our workmen live a degraded life. No white man who has to bring up a family, and fulfil all the duties expected in the United No white man can States from a respectable working man, can compete with these people; and compete with them. the ideal at which the republic aims is not the cheapest labor but to have all its citizens on the highest plane of humanity possible. There is nothing more that occurs to me.

SAN FRANCISCO, July 28th, 1884.

BEE.

Colonel F. A. BEE, examined :

Q. You are the consul here for the Chinese Government ?- A. Yes, sir; I am.

Q. How long have you been consul ? A. Going on now in my second term-six years in November. My second term expires in November. The consul is appointed for three years. I have been consul six years up to next November.

Q. Before asking your evidence on certain specific points. I think it is only fair to the Chinese population of San Francisco that I should ask you what you think has been the effect on the commercial development of the country, and their conduct as citizens ?- A. The geographical position of this coast was such when California was first settled- and the same idea holds good yet. -the great distance from the labor markets of the world for instance, and the East, and the cost and expense of getting here, and the higher rate of wages. paid, and the very small amount of manufacturing which was done; for these reasons, and the very limited extent to which farming was carried on, in view Chinese immigra- tion encouraged ment of California. of the mining operations of the country, Chinese immigration was encourag- at the early settle- ed at that date. At the early settlement, in 1854 and 1856, up to 1860, when the civil war broke out, there was almost a universal sentiment throughout the country, at the breaking out of the war, to establish manufac- tures. Heretofore we had ordered all our wearing apparel, and all the implements of toil we used were imported from the East ; and it was sug- gested then, and the press was quite unanimous, that Chinese labor should be used in establishing manufactures on this coast, in view of their being cut off by the civil war-the railroad only being projected then, and all our resources were shipped around Cape Horn-the railroad was in course of construction. It was thought then by the citizens resident here, who had the best interest in the development of the state, we should utilize this labor ;: and we did, and we date our large manufacturing interests from that time. Manufactures the We commenced about 1860. The branches of labor which the Chinese em- Chinese were en- gaged in. barked in at that time were the manufacture of boots and shoes, the manu- facture of clothing, underwear, cigars, matches, and various other little;

BEE

Ilight industries of the country. It was largely organized under American capital, and this labor I want you to understand was employed in these manufactures, and those manufactures have been growing year by year till they have got to be a very large proportion. Then we, at that time, sent forty millions of dollars East for what we purchased ; we do not send to exceed eighteen or twenty millions now. This success in the manufactur- 1 ing interests with Chinese labor, of course, developed other industries. Chinese labor Capital went into agriculture, foundries, machine-shops, woolen-mills. We were sending our wool out of the country. The capitalist went into woolen manufactories, some of them employed as high as six hundred Chinese for the manufacture of our wool into cloths. That labor has been since largely Their labor dis- displaced by the employment of white labor. There are but few in those manufactures now. At that time it was considered to be just the labor we wanted, and we utilized it for that purpose. There was no opposition to the establishment of any of these industries. There were not at that time more than thirty or forty white shoemakers in the country when the Chinese first entered into that manufacture. Consequently, you can see we had to send East, to New York and Massachusetts, for all of that kind of wear. Now our importations are light, and comparatively nothing worth mentioning. Of course, in the establishment of those industries, California saved large amounts of capital and kept it at home. The hides were sent East to be tanned into leather, and the leather was made into shoes, and sent back here, but now the leather is tanned and the shoes are manufactur- ed here.

developed other industries.

placed by the em- ployment of whites.

Q. You attribute this development to what may be called the use of Chinese labor ?- A. Largely so.

Q. I understand that after a time the Chinese passed from being Chinese capitalists laborers to taking the manufactures into their own hands ; is that so ? and manufac- turers do not in- i terfere with the day laborer. A. Of course ; naturally a large number of Chinese capitalists went into manufactures, and are in them to-day, with their own capital, as invest- ments, but not into foundries or machine-shops. They do not interfere with the day laborer, for instance ; they never are permitted to work on public works at all, in this city ; you never see them carrying bricks or mortar, or acting as masons.

Q. They are represented to us by some witnesses we have examined as Their immorality being very immoral, and as having a bad effect on the morals of the com- no greater than among other munity ; what have you observed in that respect ? A. My experiences as foreigners. to their immorality is, I do not think they carry it to any greater excess than other foreigners we have amongst us. Many of the charges made against the Chinese as to their immorality in the community are not true-the excessive charges made against them are not true.

Q. It has been represented to us that the percentage of criminality Criminality of the amongst them is larger than amongst any other people ; what have you Chinese. observed about that ?- A. My observation has been quite to the contrary. For instance, a few years ago the records of the police department would show largely in excess the arrest of Chinese set down as criminal arrests. On examination of the records in the office you will find that sixty or seventy-five per cent. of these arrests were based upon trivial offenses, like the violation of the cubic-air law-the law that there must be five hundred feet of cubic air to each individual. Scores were arrested in one night for violation of that law.

2

Q. We examined Chief Crowley, and he showed us books containing photographs of from three to four thousand thieves-Chinamen? A. That book has been running for thirty years. That is what has been collected in thirty years. I think it would be well for you to examine the munici- pal reports of the city and county of San Francisco, to see how many Chinese were occupants of the industrial school, of the hospitals, of the house of correction, and you will get a very correct answer to the ques- tion. Here is the chief of police's report for the city and county of San Francisco, 30th of June, 1878: number of arrests for drunkenness, 6,127, not one of them charged as being a Chinaman. I think there were four Irish brought before the courts to one Chinaman, from the lower courts to the highest in the state.

Q. Could you give us statistics to prove that ? A. That is a very diffi- cult thing to do ; you can only judge from the names.

Q. It will not be necessary to go into the nationalities ? A. I have in my hand here the statistics for the year 1881, the municipal reports of the city of San Francisco. I find out of 264 committed during the year ending June 30th, 1881, Chinese, 61; Irish, 83. Out of these 61 com- mittals, nine were females ; thus out of 380, China supplied 61. In order to get at the true percentage, you have to add 352 committals of native Americans ; 352 and 380 foreign makes 732, so that the ratio of Chinese crime, judged by this table, would be as 61 is to 732.

Q. Do many Chinese become to a large extent chargeable upon the public charities, Colonel Bee ?- A. By reference to the same report, pages 367 and 368, there was committed to the almshouse during that same year 564 foreigners, 164 natives of the United States, not one Chinese. In the same volume, city and county hospital, page 341, natives of the United States committed 962, foreigners, 2,242, total 3,204, out of which number 10 were Chinese and 1,053 Irish.

Q. Have they hospitals of their own ? A. They have private hospitals. Each of the six companies has a hospital ; they being benevolent associa- tions, they have hospitals for the care of their sick. During the same year, I find in the report of the pest-house, 26th street hospital-the year in which the small-pox was epidemic in San Francisco-that the small-pox hospital admitted 459 patients, of which the Chinese numbered 34, pages 316 and 319. That comprised all the public charities and the admissions thereto.

Q. Then you take issue with those who state that crime is more prevalent amongst them than amongst other portions of the population ? -A. I do.

Q. You spoke, Colonel Bee, of the six companies as charitable associa- tions ; could you explain to me their organization ?- A. Yes, sir. The Province of Canton is comprised of six divisions-you might say six counties comprise the province of Canton. The Chinese here organized what is known as the six companies, wholly for benevolent purposes. A Chinese immigrant to this country, who came from one of these counties in Canton, on his arrival here was met at the steamship landing by the secretary of each of the companies. These secretaries announced that they were the secretaries of the associations, representing each of the separate districts. The Chinese gave their names and were registered as residents

BEE'

of the district. That register is kept at the headquarters of the company. "The functions of the Chinese six companies are to protect their Chinese fellows in health, and provide them with means to reach the interior ; provide them with medicines and with hospital accommodations in case of sickness, and look after their interests physically, generally. If a Chinaman becomes sick he applies to the agent of the six companies who procures ¡medical aid for him, and puts him in the hospital if he is at a convenient distance. And if he dies that company buries him ; and at the proper time, at the request of the parents, that company returns his bones to the parents in China. There the functions of the company cease. They have been charged as being immigration agents-importers of Chinese labor. I undertake to say the proof cannot be produced in a single case.

Q. Why should these companies take so much interest in the Chinaman then ?- A. The testimony cannot be produced that one of the Chinese companies brings labor to this country, paying his passage directly or indi- rectly. It cannot be produced that they have collected a dollar of his wages and appropriated it. It cannot be shown that a dollar has been collected as a fee from him, until his departure from the country. Before departing he goes to his headquarters, and settles his fee as a member of the company, the fee ranging from $2.50 to $10. Those companies who represent a Fees. «district where there are but few immigrants, their fee is $10. Where there is a large number, it is $2.50. That is the fund and the only fund they have from them. The interest is no more or less than that exercised by other benevolent societies-masons, odd-fellows and druids.

Q. You say the testimony cannot be produced, but the fact may be Immigration out- though the testimony cannot be produced? A. It cannot be a fact that side of their funo- tions. the Chinese companies ever have brought any immigrants to this country. It is entirely outside of the functions of their organization, and hence a matter in which they have no interest.

Q. What motive could they have then in organizing ? A. If you desire to get the reasons of the organization of the six companies, I can give it.

Q. Yes ? A. In the early settlement of California by the Americans, Organization of we had in our early days no laws, we might say. We were here in large numbers without courts, without laws, no established government ; we were a territorial government for a time. There were no sheriffs, no officers, no courts; no mail facilities to speak of, except by express ; no mail contracts let by the government. Communication with the interior and the sea-board was very difficult. Americans arriving in the mines organized associations. For instance, I belonged myself to a New York association ; adjoining me was one called the Palmito association ; another one was a Pike County of Missourians, etc .; they went by the names of the different states. Each one of those associations kept a book, and all residents of New York arriving in those diggings would come to this place and register their names, writing where they resided. Once a month, a courier would come around to those different associations, and take all the names off the registers. He would come to San Francisco as a courier and get the letters and mail belonging to the subscribers for which he received $1 for letters, and newspapers .50 cents. Mail was delivered and separated generally in the headquarters .of those associations, and the parties who had signed their names came there and got their mail. When a man from New York was taken sick, a notifica- țion was sent to the members that he was sick in a certain ravine or canyon. "Then a committee was appointed to go and take care of him, and to nurse

the six companies.

20

him and bury him, or procure medical attendance if necessary. Chinese, when they came into the mines, noticed and became familiar with those organizations of the whites, and hence the basis of the six companies. They organized then their six company associations, not organized in San Francisco originally, but in the mines, establishing a headquarters here where their letters were sent from here to the mines, the same way we were doing it. They have kept up that organization till this day, although all the other associations fell through when the government machinery war put in work, mails established, officers appointed, and a regular govern- ment, and no further necessity for such associations. That was the begin- ning of the six company associations which does not exist in any other. country in the world to which the Chinese immigrate but California.

Q. You would say that they are survivors of that original ? A. Yes ..

Six companies as arbitrators.

Q. A statement has been made that these companies try men for offenses, that they in fact make laws of their own, have their own sanctions to these laws, and inflict severe punishment, and sometimes have- not hesitated to inflict capital punishment ; what is your evidence on. that head ?- A. It is not true. I will state that I know that like ourselves. occasionally they have cases for arbitration brought to the attention of the six companies, and they arbitrate or employ arbitrators, and white men are sometimes called in to act with them ; but as to their trying a man for a criminal offense, it is not true, or that they inflict punishment.

Q. What is your evidence, colonel, as to the statement that women are sold over in China for the purposes of prostitution here ? A. That is true ; women are bought in China and brought here for prostitution. I would like to state that we also have a foreign association that imports prostitutes direct here from France, for the same purpose of prostitution.

The youth of the city not corrupted by Chinese women.

Q. We have in evidence that these Chinese prostitutes are in a special way corrupting to the youth of San Francisco ? A. That is not true. In. order to find these prostitutes you will have to have a police officer. They do not flaunt before your gaze their calling like the Europeans. I can. better refer to the testimony of Dr. Stout, a member of the State Board of Health, page 652, the Report of the Joint Special Committee of 1876. Dr. Stout says : "The hoodlum boys go among them and the white men, sometimes sailors, sometimes the wanderers of the coast, and the. Spaniards go among them, and they go more to molest the women, to dis- turb them, than to use them. And when they use them they do not run greater risks than in going to other houses. When boys go to them and get disease they are of that class, they would go there or somewhere else. They will be in mischief ; and where the mischief is worst, it is the better for them, and adds to their gratification while there. And if they contract their first baptism of blood there, it is perhaps better than if they should contract it somewhere else ; and if it is cheaper it is perhaps better. The statement that the morality of our white boys is corrupted by going among the Chinese is a gross exaggeration. They can go further and fare better. Very few go among them anyhow."

Q. Would you turn to page 672 of the same report ? You will see there that David C. Wood, who was the superintendent of the industrial school of San Francisco, was examined, and he states that he has an average of 175 boys under his care. You will see that in reply to the question as to the physical effect of the Chinese on the community, he says : " They

21

introduce venereal disease among my boys ; there is hardly a day since I have been at the school that I have not had boys being treated by the doctor for these diseases, and they invariably got the disease in China- town from Chinese prostitutes."-A. That is the criminal class referred to by Dr. Stout. Mr. Wood was superintendent of the criminal school- prisoners-that is my only answer. They were not sent to that institution .because they had these diseases. They were sent there as criminals .belonging to the criminal classes. It is a slander to call this class " our boys."

Q. It has been stated, colonel, that when the Chinese quarrel amongst "themselves, they are very savage and violent, and use weapons ; what is your evidence on that head ? A. In California there are about 1,400 Chinese, according to my estimates, that are irresponsible, vicious, criminal, who have no occupation. They are known as highbinders. Those men are cruel, irresponsible and of the criminal class ; but take the Chinese character and people as a whole they are not savage or cruel-they are not savage, they are timid. A hoodlum of twelve years of age can drive half a dozen of them from the street. They avoid contact ; they avoid difficulty of that nature, all that is possible. As a class they are not to be judged by the few irresponsible non-working Chinese highbinders.

Q. Are those highbinders ever employed by the six companies ?-- A. .No, sir ; they have no occupation whatever. The six companies have no ruse for that class.

Q. Is there any other point which you think would be useful for us ; you know what our object is ?- A. No ; I think we have gone over all the points.

Q. Did you know Benjamin S. Brooks, who was examined before the joint committee ?- A. I did.

Q. Is he alive ?- A. He is dead.

Q). What was he ?- A. A distinguished lawyer ; an old pioneer ; a man of the highest respectability and standing ; and by reference to this testimony before the Senate committee you will see how strikingly he brings out the necessity of Chinese labor to the advancement of this state, and probably no man in California had studied its interests more thor- oughly than had Benjamin S. Brooks.

PATRICK CROWLEY, examined :

Q. Your name, sir, is Patrick Crowley ?- A. Yes.

.Q. And your position is chief of police ?- A. Yes.

Q. Of San Francisco ?- A. Of San Francisco.

Q. How long have you been connected with the police ?- A. This is Twelveyearschtet my twelth year as chief of police. · of police.

Q. And have you had during that time occasion to observe the habits of the Chinese in San Francisco ?- A, I have ; yes, sir.

CROWLEY -

Chinese habits and actions un- bearable.

Secret societies among the whites to get rid of the Chinese.

Q. Up to the passing of the Restriction Act, what were the habits of the Chinese ?- A. Their manner and habits and actions and everything else were almost unbearable, so much so that it came very near a number of times to bcing the cause of creating a bloody riot-a fearful riot. I am in a position to know that better than any one else. I have got reports. here that would astonish the citizens if they were made public. There were secret societies-we looked upon those people as assassins, for the reason that they did not appear to have any discretion at all in the matter. They were willing to murder and rob for the purpose of getting rid of the Chinese. What I mean is this : there is a class of people here that are just as much opposed as these people, but they are intelligent and have property interests here, and did not want to resort to these means. They wanted legal and peaceable means to be used to get rid of the Chinese. But. outside of that there were the working classes, for instance, and those people doing business, who live on the working classes, who did not appear- to have patience and had got up secret societies.

Q. The secret societies were made by the whites ?- A. Yes, sir ; of: course.

Q. I do not understand you to say that the Chinese were assassins ?-- A. No; I mean to say that we looked upon those people that were organized in that form as assassins.

Q. The whites ?- A. Yes ; because the law-abiding people did not. approve of anything of that kind, although they wanted to get rid of them.

Q. What conduct on the part of the Chinese led to this action of the- whites ?- A. The cause of it was this : We have you understand-this is. a new country-we have a rising generation here of young people, girls. and boys, that are growing up here. Our manufactures here are very scarce, and those employed in these places are principally Chinese. This- class I have reference to were born and raised in the city, their parents- Effect of Chinese labor to drive white women into prostitution. are poor, and it has the effect of driving the women into prostitution, and the boys to live off prostitution and thieving. The boys really are to be pitied. It was only the other day I was talking to Mr. Taylor, a respect- able merchant here, who some years ago was in sympathy with the Chinese, like myself. I know that they caused me a good deal of trouble, because I believed they were a persecuted race. That was at the time before they had introduced themselves into manufactures. He, Mr. Taylor, talked. with me and said, "It pains my heart ;" and said : " I had ten or twelve. of these people come to me for employment ; what can we do for them ?"" There are several societies that are organized for the purpose of relieving this class of people ; sending some of them to farming in the country, etc. I will explain my position in regard to that matter. I said, I was friendly to them at that time, which is true. About eighteen years ago, the first, determined effort was made against the Chinese-as long back as eighteen. years ago. There was a contract given, for instance, for building a railroad,. a street railroad, to the Potrero. Two men by the name Myers and Weed. had the contract. They took the contract on competition ; it was very- low. They employed white labor, and they found they could not carry- the contract without a great loss to themselves, so they were compelled! White labor dis- to discharge all the whites and employ Chinese labor. By doing that they- placed by Chinese. could make a profit on the contract. They did do it, and it raised quite an excitement. The people rose up and drove the Chinese away from there, and the consequence was we had a riot.

CROWLEY

Q. Am I to understand that the main objection is that they work They undersell cheaper; they undersell the white labor in the labor market ?- A. Yes, sir ; live 75 per cent for this reason : That the Chinese can live ninety per cent .- well seventy- cheaper. five per cent. anyhow-and I do not exaggerate when I say that they can live seventy-five per cent. less than the white men.

Q. With that exception is the Chinaman as good a citizen, as law- He is not a law- abiding ? A. He is not a law-abiding citizen. You would be astonished the abiding citizen. way those fellows fight the law. We have a place in Chinatown, a space of five blocks square-you understand what a block is ? In that space there are crowded about fifteen thousand Chinese ; in that space of territory we have about eight policemen. We have only got a population here of probably, I think, two hundred and sixty thousand inhabitants anyhow. We have four hundred policemen, that includes the clerks and detectives and the whole department, you understand. We have about three hundred patrolmen. The patrol is divided into two divisions, one half on duty at a time. If you will only make a calculation, as the difference between, say, twelve or fifteen thousand with a representation of eight policemen, and two hundred and fifty thousand with a hundred and fifty policemen, there is that difference. What I mean is that it requires that little space to be more than double the police to keep those fellows in subjection.

Q. But there is a far larger number within that space than of whites in any like space ?- A. Of course there is, but the space is so small it ought not to take so many police.

Q. It is the number that would require the policemen, not the space ? -A. Yes, but that little space ought not to take so many.

Q. You ought to be in a position to judge by statistics as to the Chinese crimina- relative criminality of the Chinese ; how do they stand in that respect ?--- lity above that of any other nation- ality. A. The proportion is away above any other nationality.

Q. When you say away above any other nationality, chief, do you mean that, taking the men of any other nationality, there is a larger per- centage of criminals among the Chinese ? A. I think there is. I look upon them as a nation of thieves, and I am willing to assert that publicly. thieves.

A nation of

Alargernumber of them.

Q. It would not be fair to take the white population and count the women and children in. In order to make a fair comparison you have to take the number of males. Do you think that there is a larger number of criminals amongst the Chinese males ?- A. There is not any question criminals among about it at all. You take the white race and there is a proportion of crime amongst the females, when you count the arrests for prostitution and drunkenness, and all that kind of thing. I find this in my business. I make a distinction between the whites and the blacks. We find the percentage is far smaller amongst the blacks, as amongst the whites and blacks.

Q. You mean the negroes ? A. Yes, that is in this country ; but they tell me in the south it is different. But my experience in this state amongst the blacks and the whites is that the percentage of crime is far below any other with the blacks, and amongst the Chinese it is away above. And They all steal. Chinese will all steal.

Q. You said you would supply us with some statistics under this head ? A. Yes, sir; I will have it ready before you go away. Here is a specimen

white labor, and

CROWLEY

Photographs of Chinese criminals. of what I charge those people with. Here are books that are exclusively filled with the photographs of Chinese thieves; these are Chinese thieves every one of them. I have got a record of every one of them. [The chief produced five books with photographs of Chinese, each one containing about one thousand photographs. ] There is one thing I want to explain. Those are only for the thieves. We do not take the pictures for other crimes. Those are for stealing and robbery, and that kind of thing only. We have the most complete record here that they have in any part of the world. This fellow here [pointing to one of the photographs in the book] we may trace him through half a dozen countries. That is the prison record.

Criminal record.

Q. A statement has been made to us that the women are sold in China for the purposes of prostitution ; would you be able to give us any evidence of that ? A. That is not susceptible to evidence, but you can rely that it is positively so. That is why I suppose that any country they get into, they do not care how powerful the laws may be or how well they are exe- cuted, the ingenuity of those people will defeat them.

Their ingenuity defeats the laws.

Q. Another statement has been made to us that they come here under bondage to the six companies, have you any evidence on that head ? A. No; of course if we could prove those things we could break it up, but you cannot prove anything against them. You cannot get a Chinaman to go into court and testify where a Chinaman is interested.

Prostitution and its results.

Q. A statement has been made that they corrupt the youth, the young boys, have you any testimony on that head ?- A. The only testimony we have is the hospital, that is all. They have loathsome diseases that they get from those women.

Q. Are there any number of boys in the hospital with loathsome diseases ?- A. There has been ; we have them down in the city receiving hospital, and at their homes.

Q. Did they attribute their diseased condition to Chinese women ? A. Altogether.

Opium-smoking the greatest curse of the country.

Q. It has also been stated that the Chinese men corrupt the boys in this respect, by teaching them to smoke opium. Have you any evidence on that head ?- A. Plenty on that head. We get the evidence because we catch them in the act, and convict them. It is the greatest curse in the country.

Q. How do you catch them in the act ? A. We catch them in the opium joints.

Opium joints.

Q. You catch the whites smoking there ?- A. Yes ; one of these Chinese places. The Chinese receive the fees of admittance, and they give them the opium. It was made a crime under a city ordinance here to smoke opium. The Chinese tried to beat it in another way, and an ordinance was passed requiring them to pay a very heavy license, but it does not appear to stop them.

Q. Was a special law passed to deal with opium-smoking ?- A. Yes.

Opium-smoking Q. And it is now a criminal offense ?- A. Yes, and we make any quan- a criminal offence. tity of convictions under the ordinance. They become so much accustomed

They will not testi- fy where China- men are con- cerned.

CROWLEY

to it, and it takes such a hold, it is almost impossible to reform them. It is -the greatest vice we have here in this country and all over America.

Q. When you say "any quantity of convictions," could you give us any Convictions definite idea of the number? A. Well, a great number of convictions for smoking opium, against both men and women. We bring in as many as opium-smoking. thirty in one haul, so you can judge. They just lay up there naked, without a stitch on them-men and women-under the influence of this drug, and they are principally young people. They do not have any control over themselves at all, while they are under its influence.

against white men and women for

Q. Is it any worse than drinking whiskey ?- A. Yes, it is far worse than Worse than drink- anything of the kind.

ing whiskey.

Q. Far worse than whiskey ?- A. Yes, sir; because a person may become "addicted to whisky and there is a chance at some time or another of reform ; but when he becomes addicted to smoking opium, there does not appear to be any reform in them at all. They die in the insane asylum-a great many of them. I presume if you went to Stockton or Napa, and inter- viewed the resident physician there, he would tell you there was a great many cases there caused by the smoking of opium.

Q. Is there anything else that you think would be useful in forming a Chinese immigra- judgment as to the desirability or undesirability of Chinese immigration undesirable. tion universally on the Pacific coast ?- A. About four years ago-I do not remember the year-the Restriction Act first went into effect, I say 1880, but it might have been 1881. It is an easy matter to get at the year exactly. There was . a proposition to submit the matter to the vote of the people of this State of California, and out of the poll of one hundred and fifty thousand, there were eight hundred in favor of Chinese immigration-you see that is an immense majority, eight hundred out of one hundred and fifty thousand.

Q. There was a question I intended to ask, it is this : What has been Effects of the Res- the effect of the Restriction Act ?- A. The Restriction Act has worked triction Act. .splendidly. Business has become more prosperous all over this country, particularly in San Francisco, because it has really driven the Chinese away from here and scattered them all over. Heretofore they were Chinese scattered. employed principally here in manufactures and all that kind of thing, and as they became scattered the demand for Chinese labor was not so great, and has given the young people a chance to get into cigar factories and shirt factories. It is only a short time ago, within the past two or three weeks, there was some sixty Chinese that were discharged, and sixty boys Chinese displaced and girls were put in their places. That was done by the aid of the best and boys and girls people in this town. They make up the difference in loss to the employers. substituted.

Q. I would like to know what effect it has had in relation to keeping the peace ? A. A great effect. Those fellows at times here, as far back as I remember, they had trouble. They are an excitable, desperate lot of fellows as you ever saw. You might think they were cowardly, but they are not. They made a raid-and they commenced in a room about this size, where they crowded in about five hundred, and they cut each other all to pieces, and at the great risk of the lives of the officers we quelled them. They fight with all kinds of instruments.

Q. With what instruments ? A. With knives and iron bars .. One Murderous fellow had some eighteen slashes about him ; and they were very bold here. weapons.

anyhow, at one time. We made raids on them once in a while, and every man would have a knife or a pistol, or a slung shot, or something of that sort. The buggers would turn down the lights, and some we would catch with their weapons on, but they would throw them away if they could. It would sometimes take almost a cart-load to bring them down.

Q. Is there any other thing that you would like to say ?- A. There is one thing that is of more importance to the whites in America, or North America, than anything else I know of. Outside of all other considerations the great objection to the Chinese is this : that some years ago, there was not great opposition to the Chinese for the reason that people were willing to accept their services on account of being cheap. They worked in shoe factories and all kinds of factories here, you understand. The Chinese worked some time till they learned the business. When they got the business to perfection, they started in on their own account ; they sent to China and got capital and the very people that employed them were driven out. of business, because they could not compete with them, don't you see .. Therefore the capitalists would be hurt by them just as well as the work -- ing people, and every body-it drove them out of the business. . -

Q. What has been the effect of the amended Act, which has just come- into operation ?-- A. It has only gone into operation, and the presumption. is it will be a great improvement on the first. That shows in itself how objectionable the first Act was, and the people were not satisfied with it,. and wanted to have an amended Act.

Q. How was the first Restriction Act found ineffective ? A. In this way : that it exempted, for instance, merchants and students, and all that kind of thing, of course, which is all right, I presume; but the rascals took advantage of it in this way : that every man that came was a merchant or a student. So now in China they have to get a certificate from the American authorities, the American minister, with well authenticated. evidence.

Q. They have to get that certificate from the American minister in. China ? A. Yes.

Q. They did not have to do that before ? A. No; they got certificates there, but now the minister has a right to take testimony and all that kind of thing.

Q. I understand you to say that the system of identification in China is now more perfect ?- A. I think it is. The minister now takes evidence; and vouchers of a more authentic character have to be produced .. by any Chinaman before he is allowed to enter here.

SAN FRANCISCO, July 29th, 1884 ..

Dr. BENJAMIN R. SWAN, examined :

Q. How long have you been in San Francisco, doctor ? A. I came here in January, 1870. I arrived here fourteen years ago.

Q. I understand you were for some time coroner for the city and county of San Francisco ?- A. Yes ; I was coroner from December, 1874, until December, 1877-being three years.

27

Q. In your character of coroner you were brought into special contact with the Chinese ?- A. Yes, whenever a sudden death took place, or any case that required a coroner's investigation-that applied to the Chinese the same as to other nationalities.

Q. In connection with the enquiry as to the effect of Chinese immigra- Chinese testimony tion into British Columbia, we have visited San Francisco in order to get unreliable in the. case of crime. what information we could as to the character of the Chinese immigration here ; is there anything that came before you, in your office of coroner, that you think would be of interest to us in regard to such enquiry ?- A. I consider Chinese testimony, as far as my three years experience went, as perfectly unreliable in the case of crime-murder, that was all I had to deal with ; deaths in that way. A given case being reported I frequently found Chinamen who where near the spot; claimed to have witnessed the whole transaction ; gave graphic accounts ; these would be among the witnesses on the formal inquest. On appearing they would intimate that they did not understand English, and through the interpreter would say that they knew nothing about the affair, and upon asking him in distinct terms, through the interpreter : "Did you not yesterday at such a time, tell that man (pointing to my deputy) so and so?" The reply would be: " I did not understand what he said." I never succeeded in fastening a crime on a Chinaman through Chinese testimony but once. A man convicted In that case the witness was a little Chinese girl, old enough to be intelli- and hanged on the testimony of a. gent ; too young to understand the danger she was running in testifying. Chinese girl. That man was hung.

Q. What do you mean by the " danger she was running in testifying ?" Danger in giving -A. As she was giving her testimony, and she was asked to point out the testimony. man that she saw do the act, out of a number of Chinamen that were there, she pointed her finger at the man and says : " him." As soon as she said this he jumped right to his feet, and said something to her in Chinese. She started back with a great deal of terror, and went into the arms of some bystander, or bysitter I should say. This was at the inquest. The accused jumped right out of his chair and started across the room, and I asked the interpreter what he said in his Chinese. The interpreter said he had said : " You had better shut up." Of course this is all an opinion of mine, for the girl was very much frightened, and on enquiry I got hold of this idea that she was threatened ; and the remark was made by the Chinese police officer-I mean the officer that was on the beat in China- town-that if the girl had been older, and understood, we could not have gotten anything out of her, on account of the danger that she ran in testifying against this man.

Q. Could you be more specific as to the danger she ran ?- A. I should Assassination. consider that she ran the danger of assassination.

Q. By whom ?- A. By this man's friends or acquaintances ; and, as I say,' all these matters are simply matters of opinion that I could not bring you specific proofs about.

Q. While you were coroner, did you have many cases of violent deaths Many cases of vio- in Chinatown ? A. Yes, sir, a good many ; but after we hung this man witness's term of

lent deaths during: there was not any for two years-no murders. That is my recollection ; office. all this happened seven years ago. I think there were no Chinese murders -that is, that came to our knowledge-for two years.

Q. During the first year you were coroner, were there a good many ?- A. There was quite a number altogether, I do not mean while I was coroner-that this two years includes all' of my term. That is what I believe the record calls for. I think there was a part of these two years would come into my term.

Q. Have you got the official statistics in your possession ?- A. I have got the whole number of cases that occurred.

Q. Would you give it to us, please ? A. This includes all the Chinese cases, whether murder or sudden death, or from accident. Here I might say that you can get the exact figures, and all the particulars, at the coroner's office, for they are all kept there. Mine are only taken from my annual report. While we go into office on the first of December, our reports run from the first of July till the next first of July, so that I would give in my first report only one half-that is for my own self and the other half for my predecessor. So that the last six months of my office is reported by my successors, but from 1874 to 1875-July to July-out of 297 cases investigated there were twelve Chinese cases. There is the table [showing book]. The birth place is given. In 1875 and 1876, out of 321 cases there were 22 Chinese cases. In 1876 and 1877 out of 200 cases there were 43 Chinese cases. That includes accidents and everything.

Q. I suppose we can get full particulars, if it should strike us as of importance, for every year, from the municipal reports, up to the present time ?- A. Yes; but you will find that there was a special law passed in 1872; and these peculiar reports, and my action, were all under the new law passed in 1872; and there has been full and complete records ever since. When I took hold of the office I opened a new set of books, and they have been kept up ; and you can find there not only the record but everything-the man's name and the crime charged, and also the whole testimony on file, and the whole business.

Q. Is there anything else, doctor, that you have to say that you think would be of use to us ?- A. When I wanted to get hold of one particular man, we always went to the interpreter of the company he belonged to, and the impression left on us by dealing with him, and by other facts, was that there was some power behind that we could not grasp nor understand.

SAN FRANCISCO, July, 30th, 1884.

CHARLES WOLCOTT BROOKS, examined :

Q. How long have you been a resident of San Francisco, sir ?- A. I came out in 1852 first.

Q. Are you an Englishman ?- A. No, sir ; I was born in Boston, or the suburbs of Boston, in Massachusetts.

Q. Have you ever lived in China ?- A. I have made a good many trips. there.

Q. I believe you were the representative of the Japanese Government in San Francisco for a considerable time ? A. Yes, sir; I was consul .

BROOKS:

seventeen years, and two years I was connected with the diplomatic service-travelling. I was attached to the embassy accredited to the fifteen treaty powers, for the revision of treaties. .

Q. Have you studied the character of the Chinese who immigrate to Studied Chinese: this coast ?- A. Yes, sir; I have been thrown a good deal with them. I character. understand the subject pretty thoroughly. I first began to study the habits of orientals before I came to California, when I resided in Calcutta, and I made up my mind that in order to thoroughly understand any people you must understand their motives of action; to understand those it was ne- cessary to study their religion-not in order to adopt it, but to know what motives governed them.

Q. Now, sir, statements have been made to us that the Chinese immi- grants in California are a detriment to the community, partly by reason of their competition with white labor, partly by reason of their vicious character, and partly because the wealth they gained they carry back to China. We should be glad to get your evidence on all these heads ?- A. No Chinese ever come from China to the United States. ' None after my knowledge. They all come from the British Province of Hong Kong. China is not the name of the country- it is Ta Tsin. Natural emigration Natural immigra- and coolie-trade are two very different things; one comes voluntarily, the tion and coolie other is a trade in labor. The United States has always invited immigra- trade. tion. Countries with smaller territory, more thickly settled, have encou- raged emigration. The United States has ten persons to the square mile, and California only two and a half to the square mile-about. The money markets and the labor markets have been considered open markets. Certain duties in every country must be performed cheaply, and cheap labor is Cheaplabor neces. necessary. Intelligence is the standard of labor value -- the measure of sary. power in races. The Chinese come to this country from a very old and highly-cultured race. They have great adaptability, nicety of execution, and furnish a great many faithful laborers ; but no country should be judged entirely by a limited number of its people. The better classes in China rarely go abroad, and never emigrate. Those who are well off are satisfied to remain at home. The character of the emigration is therefore Those who emi- entirely composed of persons who go abroad to better their condition, to grate do so to bet earn money sufficient to enable them to return home and live in a condi- dition. ter their con- tion of ind. pendence. Three hundred dollars is generally considered suffi- In China $300 cient capital to support an ordinary laboring man on his return to China. sufficient capital Many who come abroad leave wife and children or parents at home, to live on. for a laboring man requiring assistance, and from the best information I can gather, and I have taken a good deal of pains to do so, I am assured by the leading Chi- nese merchants and managers of the six Chinese companies here, that the average Chinaman who sends home money at all sends home about thirty dollars a year. This would be the extent of the drain on the country in bullion, against which the country receives. the labor of one man for a year, and the various industries of the country, necessary to the support of that man, are patronized to the extent necessary for his support and transportation. The average Chinaman returns home in five years, They return home most of them to remain, although many, including generally those best in five years gene- educated, return from preference-I would say have latterly returned rally to remain. from preference. It is a difficult thing to govern a people who speak an entirely different language, and whose habits are so entirely at variance with our own. As a question of political economy we may well examine into the policy of introducing a new race, differing in features, taste, and religion. Mind is the standard of quality in man, and largely determines

immigration that "No nation desires his position in life, and the survival of the fittest is a universal law. No will tend to lower nation desires immigration that will tend to lower the standard of its own the standard of its ·own laboring classes. laboring classes. The question then arises : Is that the effect of the pre- sent immigration from China ? For of nations it is true as well as of all things in the animal or vegetable kingdom, that each must progress or perish. Now, if the progress of a nation is impeded, we will say by an objectionable immigration, it must be stopped, or the nation will go "The Chinese come here to make - money. backwards. The Chinese come here because it pays them to come. They come to earn money, and their ultimate idea is to return home in better circumstances than they came. This naturally leads to great economy and thrift. The early immigration from China labored for much less wages than our own people could afford to, but when, by the revision of treaties, their coming was stopped, those here were soon able to command wages nearly, if not quite, as high as is paid to Americans for similar service. China has a population of over four hundred millions. I can give you the exact figures in 1842 if you want.

Their early immi- gration supple- mented rather than supplanted "our laborers.

"The presence of the Chinese as monopolists objec- -tionable.

Q. Yes ; please do so ? A. The figures were 413,267,030, but this com- prises a vast variety of peoples belonging to seventeen or more provinces, under different viceroys, and it is only from the Province of Quang Tung- popularly called Canton-that any immigration has come to America. How far the desire to come here may in time spread, it is impossible to tell, but such is the fact at present ; therefore the question of immigration only concerns the single province of Quang Tung. The central govern- ment of China is over these different provinces, but its power is very limited. The early immigration came to supplement rather than to sup- plant our laborers. When it came it was very much needed. With the gradual filling up of California it is now claimed that we do not need it, and that any renewal of Chinese immigration would tend to lower the standard of wages obtained by American laborers. It is the pride of the United States that they are enabled to pay higher wages for labor, through the great bounty of nature, and their great territorial advan- tages and natural wealth, than any other country in the world. Thus the laborer is enabled to educate his family and acquire more home comforts ; he is, in fact, raised to a higher condition of existence than is possible under the cheap labor of Europe. This same thing applies to Canada exactly. If the Chinese coming into the country are limited in number to the actual requirements of a new country, and are able to command wages equally with American labor, the only question then involved would be whether their presence would crowd out a corresponding amount of home labor? With the enormous territory of the United States at present unoccupied, and only waiting labor to develop its resources, this can hardly be urged as an objection at present. But the presence of too many Chinese, especially if they attempt an internal self-government-imperium in imperio-by which they farm out fishing grounds, and district the cities for wash-houses, forming combinations and interfering with avenues of labor needed for the proper support of our own people, their presence is objectionable. All civilized nations have proclaimed against exclusive- ness, and mixture seems to be an element in progress; but as every home has a right to protect itself, socially, morally, and industrially, against all outside interference, so a nation, through its government, is bound to protect all proper industries in process of development within its terri- tory. Conditions may exist when the accession of Chinese aid in the labor market may protect and also increase the American labor required, our people becoming directors, and the more menial duties necessary to exist-

BROOKS

ence may be performed by laborers with less intelligence. We often blame the Chinese as a whole for the errors and faults of an individual. When -anything bad occurs it is said : " a Chinaman did it;" therefore the whole race suffers in public estimation for the wrong-doing of an individual. We should judge of a nation as a whole. Moderate immigration of really good Moderate immi- gration of good men, under cer- tain conditions, desirable, but ex- tion of an inferior men might, under certain conditions, be desirable, but no question can exist but that excessive immigration of an inferior class is a decided curse. It has been claimed that the presence of Chinese labor has caused the cessive immigra- growth of what is termed the "hoodlum " element in this city, but we class a decided must remember that all great seaport towns have a similar element. Bal- curse. timore has its "plug-uglies " and its " dead-rabbits," as they call them ; New York has its " roughs;" and I am much inclined to believe that the action of our trades-unions, in forbidding shops from taking over a limited number of white apprentices, has prevented the sons of the very mecha- nics therein employed from learning trades, and has thereby thrown them upon the world as hoodlums. If such be the case, and I believe it to be so, our own autocratic labor leagues are equally or more to blame than Chinese immigration for the presence of hoodlums amongst us. The Hoodlums. Chinese who come to this country come mostly from six districts in the province of Quang Tung, and those six districts have formed companies, or rather clubs, in this city, having managers and regular business bureaus .and arbitration tribunals. By some Americans it is claimed that they at times exercise criminal jurisdiction. This is denied by the Chinese, and it is very difficult to prove even if it be so. These companies are organized The six companies for benevolent purposes. A small fee is received from each person joining, organized for be- nevolent purposes and in consideration of which the club agrees to take care of him in sick- ness, and should he die to send his bones home to his native place. The six companies, whose headquarters are in California, but whose members are scattered all over the United States, have a membership approximat- ing as follows :-

Sam Yup

10,100

Yung Yo

12,200

Kong Chow

15,000

Ning Yeung

75,000

Yan Wo.

4,300

Hop Wo.

34,000

Total

148,000

Much complaint has been made in regard to crowding together of Chinamen person- Chinese in houses, and they are alleged to be uncleanly in their habits. ally clean. Like every nation, the poorer classes, from necessity, have not the facilities for cleanliness that those have who are better off. It is my opinion, from observation, that as soon as a Chinaman gets a little forehanded, he is very particular in regard to his personal cleanliness. Few nations wash their bodies more frequently than the Chinese. On the other hand the clothing of the laborers is, like that of our own laborers, often worn a long time. The houses of those who are well off are kept with great neat- ness, but the poor are crowded together in unhealthy localities. Nearly all of the Chinamen in San Francisco are crowded into six or seven blocks, where houses let, to Chinese, for double and treble the rent, which far superior houses in other localities rent for. Many of those who are loudest in their complaints of Chinese appear on our assessment books as owners ·of such houses and receive these extraordinary rents. In regard to their honesty, the word of a Chinese merchant is generally as good as his. bond.

I think their mercantile integrity will compare favorably, if it is not superior, to that of our own average merchant. But among the lower classes the same temptations exist as among a similar class of our own people. It is difficult to speak in regard to the Chinese as a whole, but they should' be described in detail, and I think each class, when compared with a like class among our own people, would appear much better than is generally supposed. Their exercise of judicial powers within the territory of another country is but the exercise of that extra-territoriality which western. nations have claimed on oriental soil, and to-day all offenses of Americans. in China, Japan, Egypt, and many other countries, are tried before American consuls, and appealed through the United States minister to. the circuit or district courts of the United States. It is simply extra- territoriality in practical operation; and the disadvantages of the use of a foreign language naturally leads them to courts where they can freely express themselves. Municipal laws properly enforced may correct all existing evils. Were the Chinese laborers obliged to keep their quarter in the order in which we find those of American laborers, if each were to occupy a separate room, with proper ventilation and sanitary appliances, all of the evils of uncleanliness would vanish, or certainly would be no- greater than those found in certain portions of every large city.

In mental training the Chinese are not an inferior race. As a people they are in about the condition of Europe in the 11th century. With west- ern education Chinese labor may readily rise to our standard. They prac- tice greater economy ; our people desire and have greater comforts. Every Chinaman returning to his own country becomes a missionary of western civilization; and in a broad humanitarian view of the subject I believe that the greatest good of Chinese immigration to this continent will prove to be- in the fact that the returning Chinaman becomes a missionary of western civilization, cultivating new desires and aspirations, which will in time permeate to every section of that vast empire, which comprises nearly one- third of the population of the globe. They are undoubtedly the oldest nation extant, and have been surrounded by a great wall of exclusiveness for many thousands of years. If we admit that geology teaches that the world has been created thousands of millions of years, it is not unreasonable to suppose that China has been peopled for at least a. million of years. Chinese history claims to go back with a clear consecutive record to 3588 B.C., while the mythical period runs back for more than one million years, wherein races and dynasties, are designated under names that are ascribed to individuals. Such very ancient history is naturally obscured by fables, errors and trans- positions ; but it appears that the Chinese were uncontrolled by foreign influence for about 360,000 years, showing in their nature the perpetuity of principles now so deeply implanted as to be not easily eradicated. Industrious and frugal habits, are characteristics which, when slowly built up, are likely to stand firm amid any changes of condition. They have grown up, and generally continued, under patriarchal rule. Defensive wars, famine and pestilence, and the attendant evils of corruption, have at times nearly depopulated the great plateau where the nation is said to have been founded. In time their ancestors were conquered by barbarians com- ing from the South, then by Thibetian hordes from deserts on the East, and more recently by a southern irruption from India. Each new element, thus in turn absorbed into the population, introduced slight changes along the fixed limits of its progress; but individuals in each succeeding genera- tion were trained to follow the exact calling of their progenitors, and a frozen conservatism prevailed. The present marked emigration of young

BROOKS'

men from China to other countries, is forming the nucleus of a young and Chinese emigra- progressive party in China, who desire to catch up with, and keep abreast of the times. A desire to emerge from the seclusion of their dark ages of history, will tend to the gradual disintegration of much past conservatism, when the wonderful inventions of western progressive civilization are voluntarily introduced, and availed of, in the homes of travelled Chinese, educated and trained abroad. Such a result seems further assured, when we reflect that the action of mind is progressive, and all who go abroad leave China in full expectation of returning home. Thus a vast and seclud- ed nation is gradually awakening to new life, and developing germs calculat- ed to centralize its national strength. This new and momentous movement of Chinese, is but an initial step in the approaching enlightenment of a secluded race, destined by a wise Providence to make its impress on the future history of nations. In a most remarkable degree, they inherit They inherit largely developed brain-power, evolved and built up through ages of brain-power. constant application, culture and severe mental training in a land where parental obedience is supplemented by ancestral worship. Thus they are mentally and ethnologically well fitted, under new conditions and different direction, to assume and maintain a strong national position, in the future industrial, commercial and political history of our globe.

At any rate centuries of isolation have rendered the people highly con- servative. In different parts of China the people speak different languages, and Chinese residing in one province are totally unable to converse with those residing in some others. The educated classes are mostly followers of the doctrines promulgated by Confucius, while many of the lower classes are Buddhists. The books which most largely influence the Chinese Literature. character and mind are the Le-ke one of the Five Books of King and the Analects of Confucius and Mencius. The presence of what are termed heathen temples or Joss-houses, in our midst, is deplored by Christians, Idol worship. but the public 'generally seem not to be aware that the Chinese Joss is the devil, or evil spirit, and that the worship accorded to him is mock- worship. In other words they conciliate the evil spirit, believing that God, the Good Father of all, loves His children, and they should love Him in return. He requires no conciliation. Hence all worship in these temples is not what may be termed true worship. It is, however, customary to have mediums, gifted with power to communicate with spirits, as priests, in many temples, and planchette is probably thousands of years old. These temples all have boxes containing white sand on which it is claimed answers to spiritual questions are traced. The questioner usually writes his questions on vermilion paper, which is burnt in a furnace prepared for burning prayers. The answer is then traced in sand in the presence of the medium or priest.

In regard to the expediency of allowing a large Chinese element to enter Requirements of as a factor in our population, it is well for us to consider first, the the Anglo-Saxon race to be con- requirements of the Anglo-Saxon race, and the physical relations of the two sidered before races to the soil they now inhabit. The Anglo-Saxons are generally admitted influx of Chinese. allowing a large by scientific men to represent the highest existing type of the human race. They, therefore, require conditions for their existence which other races do not. It is only within certain isothermal lines that this race can acquire its highest development. In the frozen north it perishes ; in the malarial districts of tropical and equatorial regions it cannot long sustain itself. The belt of habitable earth situated within proper degrees of latitude, or at suitable altitudes for its proper development is exceedingly limited. In turning around a globe it will be observed that in the northern hemisphere a large proportion is situated in Europe and the United States, and a small

tion forming a. nucleus of a young: and progressive party in China.

largely developed

Centuries of isolation have rendered them conservative.

3

part in Asia. Much within these parallels is water, and in Asia specially we find deserts, and large areas of low swamp land through which run, swamp rivers, whose exhalations cause fevers among persons of the Anglo- Saxon race. The Chinese, not having as white a skin as the Anglo-Saxon, are enabled to live, and through centuries have become inured to the conditions of these low swampy lands. They are happy, and prosper where the Anglo-Saxon could not long exist. As the Anglo-Saxon can only exist within a given area of this earth, it is right that that portion which is best suited to his development, and through him to the advancement of the whole human race, should be preserved for his use. In the southern hemisphere, Australia, South America, and a small portion of South Africa, offer to him favorable localities, but by far the largest part of the temperate zone in that hemisphere is covered by the ocean. It therefore seems that we should be very careful to preserve for our own race those portions of territory which seem to have been given us as our natural residence, and while commercially and diplomatically friendly to China, and all other nations, we should not allow our natural habitation to pass from our control, or be unduly encroached upon.

In regard to outrages that are sometimes said to occur, where Chinamen attack our people, it will generally be found that it is done in self-defence ; and the lower orders of our citizens, who abuse and maltreat inoffensive Chinamen, because of their nationality, have only themselves to blame when their victims attempt retaliation. My observation has been that they are long suffering; aiming to avoid trouble on all occasions as far as is possible.

Q. You say there is a natural emigration and a coolie-trade ; are those who come to the Pacific coast mostly coolies -that is to say, would you consider their coming here as part of the coolie trade ? A. To answer that question it is necessary first to define the word " coolie." The word " coolie " is a Sanscrit word which simply means " laborer ; " now "coolie- trade " is a trade in laborers. It has always been against the principles of the United States to authorize labor contracts, consequently any Chinese coming to this country under labor contracts, come under contracts that cannot be enforced after they have landed. Nearly all who come to the Pacific coast are laborers or coolies, but comparatively few come under labor contracts, in fact no more so than Irishmen came originally to the United States when railroad companies agreed to employ them in building railroads.

Q. When you say that Hong Kong is a British province, I understand you to mean that it is a British colony ?-- A. It has a Governor General.

Q. Are many of the Chinamen in that colony British subjects ?- A. After they have resided there a certain length of time. That question has been adjudicated upon within three months.

Q .- Do I understand that all the Chinese come from the Island of Hong Kong-that is, from a crown colony of Great Britain ?- A. Yes.

Q. By the "Statesman's Year Book " for 1883, the population of Hong Kong, including the military and naval establisment, according to a census taken in 1881, was 160,402 of whom there were :

Chinese, males 109;013

= females 43,399

BROOKS

The total population, the book goes on to say, in 1871, was, 123,978, the increase in ten years having been 36,504. Now, is it your opinion, as one who has given a great deal of study to ethnology, that the Chinese in that Island could increase in the course of ten years by some 30,000, and yet spare the amount of emigrants that they sent to British Columbia and They come into to California, and elsewhere ?- A. No, sir ; they come into Hong Kong from the whole province of Quang Tung, which is across only a few miles ·of water, over on the mainland.

Hong Kong from Quang Tung.

Q. That answer accords with the book entirely. I read here on page Annual average .672 : "There is a constant flow of emigration from China, passing through of Chinese arri- vals here. Hong Kong. In the eight years from 1872 to 1879 there passed through Hong Kong annually upwards of 12,000 emigrants, the majority going to the United States"? A. From my observation and information I am inclined to think that the average arrivals of Chinese at the port of San Francisco, or in the United States, has been about 14,000 a year, and about 10,000 a year have gone back, leaving a gain of about 4,000 a year.

Q. You say the immigrants come here to enable them to obtain money $300 sufficient to to live in China independently. Would $300 be sufficient to support a support a laborer laborer in China ; do I understand that $300 would be sufficient capital ? -A. Yes.

Q. And that the interest on that would support a laborer and his wife for life ?- A. I would not say his wife. He will probably do a little something.

Q. Do you know what is the return that is usually received in China for capital ?- A. It is often one per cent. a month.

Q. That would be $36 a year. Do you think a Chinaman could live on $36 a year ?- A. Easily, I should think, in China.

Q. You used the phrase "survival of the fittest." This is Herbert Explanation of Spencer and Darwin's phrase. The phrase has been used by other wit- the phrase " sur- vival of the fit- nesses, and in the pamplets and speeches I have read on the subject it test." constantly comes up, in different senses. In what sense do you use the phrase ?- A. That race which is best adapted intellectually, morally and physically to sustain itself against all adverse conditions of environment, and best enabled to avail itself of those conditions which are favorable, need fear no permanent injury while it retains these qualities. The Chinese brain will, in many cases, weigh more than the brain of the average Weight of a Chi- Anglo-Saxon, therefore we must remember that we have to contend with naman's brain. a race capable of great intellectual development and culture.

Q. What position do you now hold, sir? A. I am secretary of the California Academy of Sciences.

Q. I understand you have given a great deal of study to this Chinese question ? A. I have watched it pretty carefully for about thirty-five years.

Q. Have you written anything on the subject of the races of the East ? Pamphlets on the -A. I have communicated a good many papers on the early migrations migrations of Eastern races. of the races, and I have a few now with me. One is "The Origin of the Chinese Race," the other " Japanese Wrecks stranded and picked up adrift in the North Pacific Ocean; another is "Early Discoveries of the Hawaiian Islands in the North Pacific," and I am very glad to present them to the Commission

Q. Mr. Brooks, are you the Mr. Charles Wolcott Brooks referred to in Bancroft's " History of the Native Races of the Pacific States," Volume V., page 51? A. I am, sir.

Q. I see he speaks here of you as a most learned gentleman and spe- cially well versed in Oriental lore. The Commission is very much obliged to you for the time you have given us, and the very valuable evidence you. have contributed, and for these books. Have you anything to add ?- A. Only this : A higher power has planned that each zone should produce an assortment of animal life best suited to its conditions. In this manner habitations have been fixed for the comfort and perpetuity of the various forms of the human race. The home of the Chinese race is. in Asia, and a great future awaits the Anglo-Saxon branch of humanity upon the continent of North America. As political economists, we must ever hold in view the unalterable fact that all human laws, however framed, are practically inoperative, unless in accord with the general laws of our being. The policy to be adopted by the Dominion of Canada cannot but be a matter of very deep interest to our people, as the United States and Canada have a thinly populated boundary line, in common, which is difficult to guard. Should Canada invite a large Chinese immi- gration, great numbers would inevitably cross unguarded spots along the frontier, which act, if constantly repeated, would lead to much litigation and vexatious claims, liable to engender hard feelings between two people of Anglo-Saxon blood, who should ever continue the best of friends, join- ing shoulder to shoulder, in pressing steadily forward as the vanguard of an enlightened and progressive civilization.

The Hon. JAMES LAWLER, Judge of Police Court No. 2, San Francisco, examined :

Q. How long have you been police magistrate ?- A. One year and d half.

Q. What is the moral status of the Chinese population of San Francis- co ? A. I consider it bad, and am of the opinion that it is not improving. This, no doubt, results from the fact that these people are peculiarly wedded to ancient customs and modes of life, and are, besides, exceedingly exclusive. They all nearly live in the same locality, which is called the " Chinese quarter," and it is astonishing how so many human beings can live within such small limits. At night, especially, when these people gather from their different places of employment, the Chinese quarter presents such a scene of animation that it has to be seen to be appreciated. This quarter consists of only a few blocks, and as most of the Chinese population of the city, which is estimated at about 30,000, live there, an idea of its crowded condition may be gained. Houses of prostitution abound in this locality, and in many of them females of very tender years, children in fact, are to be found. These houses are patronized not only by Chinese, but also by whites. In this quarter crime prevails to a large degree. As is well known, these people are naturally addicted to gamb- ling and indulging in various games of chance, and for the suppression principally of this gambling vice special officers have been detailed to Chinatown. Through the vigilance and diligence of this detail, the muni- cipal treasury has for a long time been greatly enriched. Their most favorite games are "tan" and lottery, and when a conviction for partak-

LAWLER

ing in either takes place, the customary fine is $20, with an alternative of twenty days in the county jail, but in the majority of cases, and I might say in nearly all, the fines are paid. Public offenses of a different character are not uncommon amongst these people. Cases of robbery, assaults with deadly weapons, and assaults with intent to murder, and Criminality of the extortion, come frequently under my notice, and I will say in addition, Chinese. that there are to be found amongst them a great number of petty thieves.

Q. We should also wish to have your evidence on the character of their As witnesses they testimony in court ?- A. Being at the present time upon the bench, I do the people of any are shrewder than not think that it would be proper for me to say much upon this subject, other nationality. nor to indulge in many criticisms upon their testimony. I will say, however, that as witnesses they are exceedingly shrewd, shrewder in fact, in my opinion, than the people of any other nationality. Cases have often come before me, in which I am sure that the evidence was prepared, and the witnesses drilled as to the mode in which they should testify, and it was surprising to see how thorough the drilling had been. Between the evidence of the witnessess there was no discrepancy, and the most thorough cross-examination by able counsel utterly failed to break them down. I can safely say that, as witnesses, they have no superiors, and Testimony should be received with caution. their evidence should be received with caution.

Q. If you know anything about their influence on the commercial develop- Their presence ment of the community, we should be glad if you would give us the results of your observation ? - A. I have been raised in this state, and have given labor. this matter much attention, but this subject has been so fully and ably dealt with, I do not think that what I would say would add anything to the intelligence already obtained. There can be no doubt whatever but that their presence amongst us has a demoralizing effect upon white labor. Owing to their cheap mode of living they can work for far less wages than whites, and there are at the present time a great many places of employ- ment filled by them, which no doubt would be occupied by white men and women, if they could live as cheaply as the Chinese. There is no doubt, but what they are skiful laborers, and when they learn a trade, they work They are skilful as with the regularity, I might say, of machinery, and on this account they laborars. are much sought after by persons who are not inimicable to them.

Q. From your observation of the Chinese do you think the vicious The vicious ele- element amongst them is more difficult to control than that element amongst other people ? - A. It certainly is, and the reason for it is very apparent. As I have said before to you the Chinese quarter is over- peoples. populated. There are places of abode under ground as well as over, and in a small room that a white man would not think of living in, a dozen China- men may be found, not only sleeping, but living and cooking in it. China- town is intersected, or cut up also, by numerous small streets and alleys, and between a great many of the buildings there are communications like bridges across the streets and alleys, and there are means also of passing from roof to roof. Owing to this convenient connection between the build- ings, and the crowded state of the Chinese quarter, it is often a matter of extreme difficulty to pursue and capture an offender, and as the means of Difficulty in cap- secretion are numerous and complete, there is no doubt whatever, but that turing offenders. many criminals escape detection and punishment through these means. The most vicious element amongst these people is what is termed the " highbinders," amongst whom there is a strong union. They do not belong Highbinders. to any one of the six Chinese companies, but they are composed of mem- bers from them all. They are a desperate class of people, and live, as I believe

hasa demoralizing effect upon white

ment among them more difficult to control than among other

LAWLER

from my experience, in a large degree, upon means obtained by them through extortion, gambling, etc.

Not long since a case was examined by me, in which their mode of pro- cedure was well explained. The evidence showed, that just prior to the Highbinders send threatening letters and are much Chinese new year, the defendants who were before me sent threatening letters to a Chinese merchant, stating that they were without money upon feared by the Chi- the approach of the festival, and that they should be supplied with money, nese merchants. otherwise that serious consequences would follow a non-compliance. These highbinders are much feared, and are through this tolerated, and are not prosecuted by many of these respectable Chinese merchants. It is often stated, and I think with a considerable degree of truth, that there are in Chinatown species of courts, in which many cases arising between these people are tried. For it is a noticeable fact that crimes are often committed in that locality, and the greatest diligence fails to discover any clue. This may happen where trouble arises between members of the same company ; for the heads of these companies have such a control over these members, that they can at any time prevent one member from going into a court of justice and testifying against another. Were it not for the fact that my time is exceedingly limited, and that I am at the present time pressed with judicial business, I would endeavor to state to you more elaborately my views upon this subject.

SAN FRANCISCO, August 1st, 1884 ..

GIBSON.

Rev. OTIS GIBSON, examined :

Q. Were you examined before the Joint Committee ? A. Yes.

Q. Have you read your evidence as published in that volume ?- A. Yes.

Q. Is it correctly reported ? A. Yes.

His opinion the same as in 1876.

Q. Has anything occurred in the interval between that examination and the present to alter your opinion ? Does your experience since leave that evidence intact ?- A. Yes ; I have not altered my opinions. I have never given the Chinese credit for anything I do not think they deserve. I try to be just and equal in my views.

Mr. Gibson's work. Schools.

Women.

Dont amalgamate.

Q. How do you find your school for boys work ? A. Our school for boys runs only at night. The girls are kept in the house. They are escapes from servitude. This is occurring all the time. A Chinaman makes a bargain with a woman to marry her. Sometimes he buys her. If he can't buy her he induces her to run away, and pays for her board for a year ; then they get a license and marry according to law. We cannot get Chinamen to testify against traders in women. The better class say they don't know anything about those women. There is this drawback in them as an immigration : they don't purpose to amalgamate to our civilization. If they can they fight against it. But we give them no chance. Our legislature denounced them because they would not become citizens, because they would not go to our schools, because they do not hold real estate ; and the same legislature passed Acts to prevent them holding real property, or becoming citizens, or attending the public schools. I said to Mr. Angel, Mr. Swift, and Mr. Trescott: "Go and arrange with the Chinese Government that we will welcome your people to America provided they will come just as other people to live, and will

GIBSON

the Chinese should

out their queues and characteristic

comform to American customs. Let the Chinese Government issue a He proposes that proclamation that they must land without a queue, and stay here without emigrate with- a queue, and wear American forms of dress, and that those here with a queue shall have three years to arrange matters to cut off their queues or dress. go home."

Q. But do you think you would get any Chinese under such conditions ? -A. You would not have half the Chinese you now have, but the immi- gration you would get would be twice as useful-twice as good. There would be no friction. In a new dress the Chinaman would feel the inspiration of the new civilization. He would then be no more resented than are the Spaniards or the Portuguese. I have nothing else to add supplementary to my evidence before the Joint Committee.

[The substance of this witness's evidence before the Joint Committee of the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States will be found in the summary of that evidence in the Appendix.]

HUANG TSUN HSIEN, Consul-General for China, examined . HSIEN.

Q. Colonel Bee's evidence has been read over to you, is it correct in every particular ? Or have you anything to add ? A. It is correct ; I have nothing to add.

Q. Colonel Bee promised to get us statistics as to the amount of imports and exports directly due to the presence of Chinamen here, and the amount paid by them in customs duties, perhaps you could give us the facts ?- A. It will require some days' time to do so.

Q. He also said he would get us the statistics as to the amount of rent Rents paid for ten- paid for tenement and other houses. Can you give us these facts ?- ement houses. A. Several years ago the business houses, merchants, manufactories, restaurants, lodgings and places of amusement, reported an aggregate paid for rents of quite $1,000,000 per year. This did not include the numer- ous small streets and tenements

Q. Also the taxes paid by Chinese, municipal and otherwise, and under Taxes paid by Chi the proper heads ? A. Consul Bee informs me that to correctly answer nese. this would require a great amount of labor in going over the books at the city hall. The personal property tax of 1875 I have on file ; it foots up $591,500, but only includes sums of $1,000 and over. The number doing a business of less than $1,000 is very large. Considerable real estate is owned by Chinese, some of which stands in the name of white people. The taxes paid by Chinese otherwise are very large, in the way of licenses, poll taxes, etc. That which is paid to the United States for internal revenue is fully $500,000 per year. The duties paid by Chinese mer- chants for customs duties, directly or indirectly, for the fiscal year 1882 and 1883, will exceed $3,000,000.

Q. Can you state the numbers who have returned each year to China Numbers going and the amount of wealth, either in money or valuables, carried back and coming. with them ?- A. The number of Chinese who have emigrated to this country from 1852 up to December 1878, a period of twenty-six years, numbered 230,430 ; departures for China and deaths same time, 133,491 ; total number in the United States, 96,939; births, estimated, 2,000 ;

HUANG TSUN HSIEN

grand total, January 1st, 1879, 98,939. The foregoing was prepared at this consulate at the request of the Census Bureau at Washington, D.C. The census taken a year later gave the number at 105,000. As to the money values carried back, I have no means of knowing.

Ninety per cent. of the clothing of Chinese in Calli- fornia is American manufacture.

Q. What proportion of the food and clothing of the Chinese in this state and city comes from China ?- A. Ninety per cent. of the material (cloth- ing) worn by the Chinese is of American manufacture. No food, except a line of choice eatables, are imported. Rice is largely imported-last year over 41,000,000 pounds, which paid a duty of 2} cents per pound. It is charged that the Chinese work cheap because they live upon rice. Let me call your attention to the fact that rice costs by the quantity $6 per 100 pounds, while flour from wheat is only $2.50 per 100 pounds.

Q. Can you supply us with statistics as to the death rate among the Chinese in California ?- A. With a Chinese population in this city in 1880 (United States census) of 22,000, there were deaths amounting to 479, or 21.77 per cent. that year.

Q. Can you state how much land has been reclaimed by Chinese labor? -A. I have no means of knowing. The number of acres is very large.

Q. How much Chinese capital is invested in permanent improvements in San Francisco in California? A. I cannot give you the amount. They own several very valuable properties.

Q. How much Chinese capital is invested in trade ?- A. That is a Francisco for 1881 question difficult to answer. The trade between this port and China, im- ports and exports, for the year 1881, according to Commerce and Naviga- tion Report, Washington, 1881, was $16,185,165. The charge is made that the largest part of this trade is done by Chinese merchants.

Q. As to tenement houses, are they held under long leases ?-- A. Yes ; ' most of the leases have run for twenty years, made at a large monthly rental.

Q. Are these leases on the point of expiring ?A. Some of them.

Q. Will they be renewed, and if not renewed, does the obstacle to their renewal come from the landlord or from the tenant ?-- A. Yes, the greater part of them ; the landlord is quite willing to renew.

Q. How many of them have their families here ?- A. There are in this country over 1,200 families.

Q. What is the reason that the greater number of them have not their families ?- A. You must know that China, until quite recently, has had no trade or intercourse with foreign countries. The people are slow to give up their old habits and traditions, which for many centuries they have enjoyed without molestation. The idea to them of seeking homes in far off countries is so entirely new that to take their families with them when they conclude to go is never thought of. It has not been accustomed for the Chinese female to so emigrate. All these objections will in time wear off, and new ideas obtain which will overcome this prejudice. But, how- ever, a large number of Chinese families have recently come to this country.

Q. The statement has been made that the immigration comes from the humblest of Chinese, how is this ?- A. The majority of laborers coming

HUANG TSUN HSIEN

to this country from the south of China, the province of Canton, are largely of the farmer class. There are also large numbers of merchants who invest a large amount of capital for mercantile pursuits in this country.

Q. Why is it that the immigration comes from only one province ? -A. Because that province has been longer open to trade with foreigners, and the people became familiar with them and learned much about foreign countries.

Q. How many, if any, have settled on land ?-- A. A great number rent and a few buy land, I can hardly give you the average.

Q. Are they of the same class and from the same province as those who From same class settle in British Columbia ?- A. Yes.

Q. How far does the desire to emigrate exist in other provinces ?-- A. There is no desire to emigrate in any of the other provinces, except Canton and Fuhkien. Fuhkien is a province in the neighborhood of Canton. The immigration from Fuhkien is only confined to the Straits Settlements and other Islands of the South Pacific Ocean.

Q. I am aware that you have very cold weather in China, what do Chinese soon get you think would be the effect of the climate of Canada, where the winter acclimatized. is rigorous, on immigration ? A. Chinese soon become acclimated but much prefer a mild climate.

Q. Have you any further information to impart? A. I would like to Why Chinese do say this : That it is charged that the Chinese do not emigrate to foreign not readily assim- ilate explained. countries to remain, but only to earn a sum of money and return to their homes in China. It is only about thirty years since our people commenced emigrating to other lands. A large number have gone to the Straits' Settlements, Manila, Cochin-China and the West India Islands, and are permanently settled there with their families. In Cuba, fully seventy-five per cent. have married native women, and adopted those Islands as their

future homes. Many of those living in the Sandwich Islands have done the same. This course depends wholly upon their treatment in any country they emigrate to. As a matter of fact they do not assimilate as readily as the German, Irish, English and other European immigrants who come here, as their civilization is so widely different from that of China. There is quite a large number of foreigners in China, but few of whom have brought their families, and the number is very small indeed who have adopted that country as their future home. You must recollect that the Chinese immigrant coming to this country is denied all the rights and privileges extended to others in the way of citizenship ; the laws compel them to remain aliens. I know a great many Chinese will be glad to remain here permanently with their families, if they are allowed to be naturalized and can enjoy privileges and rights.

CAREY

EVIDENCE TAKEN AT THE SITTINGS AT VICTORIA, B.C.

VICTORIA, B.C., August 12th, 1884.

Mr. N. F. DAVIN (the Secretary) read the Commission.

Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : Any statements in the shape of arguments or facts bearing on the question in writing addressed to the Commission will be received.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : I addressed a letter to the mayor asking for in- formation that would be desirable to have, and also for detailed statements. I observe the mayor of the city is present, and I would ask if anything has been prepared for the consideration of the Commission?

CAREY. The MAYOR : We received a communication from Mr. Justice Gray and Reasons why in- may say we are desirous to furnish every information possible to the Com- for not forthcom- mission ; but I have been sick for some days past, and as it has been the formation asked ing. summer vacation of some of the city officials, statements, which otherwise would have been prepared, are not in readiness. There are only two officers employed by the corporation, that is the treasurer and municipal clerk, who could procure such evidence. Neither of these persons had the time at their disposal, having been fully occupied in important business at- present before the council in respect to the raising of a $100,000 loan for the city, and have therefore instructed the sergeant of police to go through the records of criminals in regard to Chinese, and, as soon as possible, will place all the information asked before the Commission.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY . I suggest for the past five years.

The MAYOR : As to the other official returns asked for, Mr. Russell, the city treasurer, is present, and you ask him, as he can speak for him- self.

Mr. RUSSELL : The information sought for is in course of preparation and will be ready to-morrow.

The Secretary here read the following letter :-

LANDS AND WORKS DEPARTMENT,

VICTORIA, B. C., August 12th, 1884.

SIR,-I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a communication of August 11th from Mr. Davin, conveying to this Government the first official intimation that they have received of the intended sitting of a Commission on the Chinese question in this Province.

This Government have had no communication from the Dominion Government of the intended appointment of such a Commission or of its final appointment, and no intimation as to the time such a Commission would be likely to reach our Province. The consequence is that the information which this Government would have been able to collect of great and vital importance to the clear comprehension of the bearing which the unrestricted immigration of Chinese into our Province has upon the interests of the white settlers cannot be forthcoming. The statistics requisite will require a long time to collect, as it is not Victoria alone whose interests are affected, but from one end of the mainland to the other the question is brought prominently before the Government.

The Government, owing to the circumstances above alluded to, regret that they will not be in a position to furnish to the Commissioners more than a bare abstract of the questions and interests involved, and they will not even be able to do this without some further intimation of the course the Commissioners

SMITHE.

43

propose to adopt in this inquiry. The mode in which the evidence is to be taken, and in what manner the persons appearing before it are to be remunerated and other questions of equal importance.

I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient servant,

WM. SMITHE, C. C. of L. and W.

Hon J. A. CHAPLEAU, Secretary of State for Dominion of Canada, and Chairman of Commission on Chinese question.

Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : We have not asked any one for information with a view of putting him on his defence. The Federal Government did not think the Local Government, unless they had facts or statistics, would have made representations to them asking for legislation to restrict Chinese immigration, or that British Columbia members, in the House of Commons, would have demanded restriction on Chinese immigration, without having necessary proof to show those to whom they appealed that such steps are necessary. The Commission has thought that corrobo- rative evidence would be forthcoming to support the contentions made at Ottawa. Any information which cannot be furnished them whilst here may be forwarded to the Capital as the Commission will also sit there. There is no special mode of enquiry to follow out. We have merely come to examine and observe and will arrive at no decision, but simply make a report to the Federal Government with a view to expedite legisla- tion on the subject at Ottawa next session.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY asked Hon. Mr. HAMLEY, the collector of customs, for returns already asked from him.

[Mr. HAMLEY handed these in, stating the letter accompanying them embodied all that was in the return. See Appendix.]

Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU to Mayor CAREY : Do you, Mr. Mayor, as chief magistrate, object to answering a few questions that may be put you by the Commission ?

The MAYOR. . Not the slightest.

JOSEPH WESTHROP CAREY, examined by the Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : CAREY.

Q. What is your name, and how long have you been here ?-- A. The Mayor. My name is Joseph Westhrop Carey. I am mayor of the city of Victoria ; been mayor since the 17th of January last; am a mem- ber of the common council, and been so for four or five years previous to my election as mayor; been a resident of Victoria about twenty-six years ; been in Victoria since 1859.

Q. Have you any idea of the number of Chinese resident in Victoria ?- 25,000 Chinese in A. A short time ago I was making enquiries in respect to the Chinese pop- British Columbia .. ulation here, and from the best informed merchants they told me about 25,000 Chinese were in the province.

Mr. CHAPLEAU We were asking in Victoria city ?-- A. I have never Total population made that enquiry. I might guess at the number of people in the city of of Victoria. Victoria-would be now about 10,000 exclusive of Chinese.

44

Chinese in Victo- ria 3,000. Q. Can you guess about the number of Chinese ?- A. I should think at least 3,000.

Q. Have you any municipal census taken ?- A. No, sir, not of Chinese ; there is no municipal ordinance requiring the return of the number of Chinese, nor has it ever been attempted.

Q. Do you levy a tax on the population ?- A. Yes, a road tax of two dollars.

Q. Do you keep a record of those who pay ?- A. Yes ; but not from the Chinese, as it is difficult to identify them, and almost impossible to collect. The collecting officer gets ten per cent. commission on collections made from the Chinese. We have no municipal regulation here to ascer- tain the domicile of the residents of the working population.

Q. There is no ordinance or regulation in the city binding them to in- scribe themselves as residents of the city ?A. No, sir ; Chinese are not allowed to vote at municipal elections. They are disenfranchised the same as the Indians, although at one time they did vote. The Chinese pay all taxes the same as other residents.

Q. Do they contribute in a large measure to the school tax ?- A. I can- not answer that question, as this is collected by the provincial govern- ment. There are not many Chinese children in the city. No Chinese children attend school, although they could do so. They educate their own children.

Q. Are they proprietors to any considerable extent of real estate in Victoria ?- A. No, sir ; rather limited.'

Q. You cannot say how many are real estate owners ?- A. I think I can nearly. Kwong Lee & Co. were about the only owners, but recently Tai Soong has purchased. They are about all, and the only two who have registered as owners. I might correct this : another man has purchased recently-On Huig, on Fisguard street. These are the only three that I know of.

Q. Are they a troublesome element ?- A. I have not found them a troublesome element to the white people of the city but amongst them- selves, and it is very hard to trace crime amongst them.

Q. The detection of it ?-- A. Yes ; I am informed by the police from time to time it is almost impossible to detect crime amongst Chinese.

Q. For drunkenness ?- A. No ; they drink in their own houses and not as white people, from saloon to saloon. The usual cause of the arrests of these people are for criminal offences and offences against the sanitary laws.

Q. Have there been many murders amongst them ?- A. Yes; a few cases of murder in their own houses.

Q. Recently, Mr. Mayor ?- A. About some two years ago. Last year there was a murder on Fisguard street.

Q. What is the difficulty of bringing these criminals to punishment ?- A. They have secret societies amongst themselves.

CAREY

Q. Is this hearsay ? A. The police say they threaten each other Chinese testi- amongst themselves in case they turn evidence. mony.

Q. Has this been sworn to by Chinese-that they dare not say so on this account ?- A. I cannot say, not having attended the police courts. I cannot say whether the proportion of crime amongst them is about the same as the white people. There are a great many more arrests than con- victions on account of the difficult manner of getting evidence against them.

Sabbath nor their . wives.

Q. Can you tell the Commission whether their habits as regards public Do not respect the morality, public order, and public health are good ?- A. As regards public morality, they are not the same as we are. They do not respect the Sab- bath or wives. Their wives here, as I understand, are their second wives, and chiefly prostitutes ; these living and bringing up their families whose children are known to be illegitimate.

Mr. CHAPLEAU : These second wives are their concubines ?- A. I did not say that; but I understand those who have wives here have also a second wife in China, those having small feet, the law with them admitting of this. As far as I know, there may be a dozen families who bring up their wives and children morally and respectably.

Q. Is the number of women given to prostitution large ?- A. Once it Prostitutes. was limited, now it is much larger.

Q. Are these women of a troublesome class ?- A. Sometimes by way of sales and marriages they give the police courts considerable trouble. As to public health, we have a great deal of trouble with them in that respect. They do not feel the same as ourselves that it is necessary for them to keep their houses clean. They never complain one against the other.

Q. Are diseases more prevalent amongst them than any other class ?- A. I think they are healthy themselves. They have never brought dis- eases amongst the white people.

Q. Are they clean so far as their persons and clothes go ?- A. That is Habits of cleanli -- hard to tell ; but the better class keep themselves clean, but the lower class we cannot tell.

Q. They clean themselves, shaving their heads, and cleaning their ears? A. Yes, they do ; but the poorer classes have a poor chance.

Q. Do they respect their contracts ?- A. I think they respect contracts Respect contracts. as regards labor, etc., in a very fair way. It may be a complaint that if the Chinese servant wants to leave he does so at a day's notice.

Q. Have you any municipal regulation or provincial laws to make them execute their contracts, either as servants or farm laborers ? A. I do not know of any local statute, except as master and servant ; but it has never been enforced. There is no local statute, I think, to force them to go to prison in case they leave before their time.

Q. Are there any objections to their coming as servants ?- A. I Reasons why it iss. think the great objection to Chinese immigration is this : that they sup- have Chinese as .objectionable to ~ plant the peasant population that should be in the country, and never servants, assimilate. They never contribute to the defence of the country or legis-

CAREY

late ; but make money and go back to China, sending a poor one in their place. There is no law to prevent them from becoming naturalized, but it is impossible to Anglicize a Chinaman. They are a non-assimilating race, even if they were allowed all chances to become citizens or had all rights of citizenship offered them.

Q. Have they impeded white people from coming in ?- A. From obser- vation, it was difficult for laboring people to get here, owing to the expense. Ships from China brought Chinamen at from $15 to $20 per head ; and if we could have got white people here at the same rate the Chinese would never have come, as white people would have been very glad to have got the same wages as Chinese, which is from $30 to $35 per month.

Q. How is it it costs less to bring them from China than from other places where white people are ?- A. I know for a fact that they have been brought from China for $15 to $20 a head. I do not know what the rate is now, but at that time you could not get to San Francisco for $15 or $20.

Can do only certain kinds of manufacturing work. Q. Are they good hands in manufactories ? A. There is only certain kinds of work they can do. There are two shoe factories, employing about sixty each, and no complaints against them. Five or six hundred are em- ployed on sewing machines, making clothes to sell to their own population in the country. Labor wages is as good as in any part of the world. I remember what the Hudson Bay Company's laborers got twenty-six years ago, which was a shilling a day ; and think wages are about the same now as ten years ago, except in the mines. Wages have not raised in conse- quence of the railway, on account of the Chinese who are employed at $26 a month. Contractors, I do not think, could have undertaken their work on the railway at that time, on account of so many railways being then made. Their work is not more profitable to them as white labor. I had a conversation with Mr. Onderdonk, the contractor of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and he said he would have one white man in preference to three Chinamen for chopping wood. The reason why white labor is not employed is owing to its scarcity ; but wherever we can get a white man we should employ him in preference. In the mines they are employed, because you can depend upon them in regard to having no strikes. I think the objection I hear from time to time is they are afraid of an over- of an overwhelm- whelming population of Chinese entering the province, and monopolizing all avenues of trade; and what is required is that no more should be allowed to come. Although they pay duty on their goods, they live en- tirely on their own products from China, living on rice chiefly, wearing clothes manufactured by themselves, and I do not suppose they consume a single sack of flour ; whereas all the white population, however poor they may be, will have a certain amount of home-made furniture, and in this respect the Chinese have nothing in their houses except what comes from China, wearing even Chinese shoes.

"The people afraid ing influx of Chinese.

The ATTORNEY-GENERAL was allowed to ask the mayor a few questions. The mayor, replying, said :

Chinese compete mainly in the com- monest kind of labor.

Where skilled labor is required Chinamen cannot be employed, because they are not mechanics. It is only in a domestic capacity they are em- ployed. At first the common labor work as regards a shovel requires no training. The competition being principally in the commoner class of

47

labor, the Chinaman living on the products and in the habits of his own country could exist where a white man could not. . Chinese cannot be re- lied on at all in case of fire, but look on like so many fools and at a loss what to do. And what I know myself, and what I have been told from the police, as I have said before, it is impossible to trace crime amongst them.

Q. Who are Kwong Lee & Co., that you said were Chinese property- owners ?- A. I do not know, as there may be a hundred or only one man in the firm ; but I know it is a firm trading between here and China.

Q. Do you know of any wills having been made ? A. No. The admin- Believesthey have istration of their estates never takes place through the courts, and there- courts of their own. fore escape duty to the Government on property left. I believe they have both criminal and civil codes of law peculiar amongst themselves, having laws to govern themselves here ; and I have been given to understand if they escape vigilance here and get to China, the offender will be traced and punished at home-in their own country. So far as I know, there are only ten or a dozen families in the city.

Supt. BLOOMFIELD, examined by the Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : BLOOMFIELD.

My name is Charles T. Bloomfield, and I am superintendent of city 2,000 Chinese in the police. I have been fourteen years in the police force. There are now in city at present. the city and vicinity ahout 2,000 Chinese. At present there are a great number distributed along the coast, at the canneries, and on the railway, who will return here in the winter. The number here last winter would be between 3,000 and 4,000. There has been a great increase in their numbers this last three or four years. I think the year before last three or four ships came with an average of 600 each, and there has been a gradual increase every summer since the commencement of the railway. The canneries may have added a few to their numbers. It is impossible to make them comply with any law, and especially the sanitary laws. They pay no respect to our laws, and if any crime is committed you cannot get anything out of them. They tell you, when asked, "They do not savey," meaning they do not know, and give no assistance-not the slightest. Give no assistance Even with an interpreter you cannot get any true information, or from crime. in the detection of the best Chinese merchants. I have caught a man almost in the act of committing crime, but when their own countrymen are brought into the court they dare not give evidence. It might assist greatly if we had a white interpreter. As to sanitary laws, I have tried to find out who is the party or owners of the property, which is almost impossible. The only way is to find out who pays the rent, and it is frequently impossible to know who does this. And suppose you do find the man and serve a notice on him, when you return to the house you find he is gone, perhaps away altogether, to New Westminster ; so they move about. I have known in- stances wherein buildings and their owners have been presented to the grand jury as nuisances and no action been taken.

Q. But such buildings as a rotten, tumble-down property-is there no Hard to enforce law to force the building to be torn down rather than let the public by-laws amongst. suffer ? A. I do not think so. It is almost impossible to enforce any the Chinese. .by-law with the Chinese.

BLOOMFIED

The ATTORNEY-GENERAL thought there was no law to remedy this ; and, after some discussion,

Sanitary-In their crowded quarters smell of opium stifling.

Superintendent BLOOMFIELD continued : Their quarters are very much crowded up as a rule. They crowd into say a room that would contain ten whites they may put in thirty. A room forty by eighteen feet and six feet high to the rafters, I have seen seventy in it. The smell of opium is stifling. They play dominoes, and tan-tan, and gamble rather. The better class are reasonably cleanly, but the lower class are the opposite, more so than white people of the same class. They are equal to the worst classes in London and other great cities. When they steal they run off and mix themselves in a crowd, and no one will tell, but will say : "No one come," when asked. Their drains, gardens, etc., are very bad to even keep at all clean. Most of the women Crime and prosti- here are prostitutes ; about a hundred in number here at present. They will sit at their doors and wickets, decoying young lads, and they are ex- tremely difficult to catch.

tution.

Diseases.

Leprosy.

Q. Do they bring diseases with them generally ?- A. Syphilis and other venereal diseases. These women are used as merchandise, and are bought and sold. Every ship from China brings more or less, as many as twenty- five at a time occasionally. Leprosy cases, but not very bad, have been here. I have known ten or twelve cases of male leprosy within the past ten years. One of these parties, about eight years ago, was kept outside the city limits in the bush, and lived by stealing hens, chickens, etc., no one caring to go near him, and died out there. The merchants, how- ever, sometimes contributed partially to his support. Another case I remember was found in a burned building, and his hands and feet dropped off him. Three or four very bad cases have died.

Opium vice spreading among the whites.

Q. Do you know of any ailing now ?- A. One is at present reported now in Victoria. Two Chinese doctors have seen him and say it is leprosy, though our white doctors say there is nothing in it. Dr. Helm- cken examined this case about four or five months ago. Very few are intemperate, though we have had a few cases. Opium is the Chinese evil, and when once the habit is contracted it cannot be got over. This habit has increased with the population. Opium is used in every house, with scarcely an exception. This evil is growing with the whites, especially on the United States side. The population who use this are principally workingmen, such as painters, and white women prostitutes, Indian women, etc. There are not many cases amongst young and indus- trious men, but there is a danger of it; but I have been told on good authority that white girls of respectable parents use it.

Crime.

Q. Are the persons giving you this information reliable ?- A. Perfectly. I have seen white women smoking in the Chinese dens myself. Larceny is the principal crime amongst Chinese. Next to larceny is assaults, cut- ting, wounding, and knocking on their heads, for the purpose of robbery, etc. During the last eight years only one case had been brought to jus- tice-Wong Foong-by evidence from themselves, and who got fifteen years, and is now in the New Westminster Penitentiary.

Superintendent BLOOMFIELD here handed Mr. Justice Gray a Chinese fan, remarking : Your honor will see an article here which is carried very much by them-which is a fan, a very pretty article, but when opened

BLOOMFIELD

is not so fantastic as its appearance might convey. When opened it was found to contain a Chinese dagger.

VICTORIA, B.C., August 13th, 1884.

Mr. Justice GRAY stated that, owing to the morning papers having omitted part of the evidence taken the day previous, the shorthand writer would have to read it from his notes, in reference to a leprosy case seen by two Chinese doctors, and Dr. Helmcken having seen the same and pro- nounced it, in his opinion, as not leprosy, consequently it would be necessary to have Dr. Helmcken examined. It is important the papers should present the evidence fairly, otherwise the public might form errone- ous opinions ; though I feel bound to say I do not believe the omission was wilful.

Sergeant FLEWIN, examined :

My name is John Flewin. I have been in the police force a little over four years. I am a native of this place, and have never been in any other police force. My duties as police officer has brought me in contact with the Chinese a good deal, having visited their quarters considerably in the position of a sanitary officer of the corpora- tion.

Mr. Justice GRAY : I wish to say, Sergeant Flewin, we want you to conceal no evidence, but to speak your own mind clearly and in plain language.

Sergeant FLEWIN : As a rule Chinese in their habitations are filthy, but Chinese filthy in in their persons are more cleanly. They have no idea of carrying out their habitations. their sanitary arrangements or carrying away filth, etc., and crowd together very thickly, a great many in a very few houses.

Q. What extent or area is covered by Chinatown ?- A. It covers a greater portion of four blocks, which are inhabited almost entirely by Chinese. About two or three thousand I should judge are in these blocks.

Q. Do you include in this number those who are in domestic service ?---- A. I include those who sleep there ; many sleep where they are employed, in different parts of the city. Their premises are filthy, and their urine is kept in barrels and tins on their premises, and which is used for fertilizing. Great difficulty is experienced in getting them' to clear it away. They never take it away until the vessels are full, which are then taken off by Chinese gardeners. The barrels carried around by these gardeners in the day time are not for collect- ing this, but for gathering up swill. The urine is carried away at night time. It is not repeated sufficiently often so as to keep the prem- ises in a healthy state. They live principally on rice, vegetables, pork, and dried fish-they are very fond of pork. They do nothing to conform to the sanitary laws without being compelled. When enforcing the law we always go after the occupiers of dwellings; but it is with very great difficulty we can find them, as they are always moving about. There is 4

Urine kept in store for fertilizing.

little or no drainage in Chinatown. In police matters we have a great trouble in tracing crime amongst themselves, through their reluctance in giving evidence and the difficulty in understanding them, and then their evidence cannot be relied upon. I think a white interpreter here would facili- tate us in carrying out the law amongst them. They are a temperate people, but drink a considerable quantity of Chinese liquor in their own dwellings. I have only known two or three cases of drunkenness on the streets. Their crimes are almost exclusively larceny. The first difficulty is, we have no knowledge of their language and customs; and, secondly, there is a positive reluctance to give any evidence at all. There appears to be an influence brought to bear on them; every Chinaman seems to belong to two or three secret societies. The higher class have a society of their own, of which we see little work of this here. The same difficulty is confined to the higher classes in finding it out. Murder is the chief crime amongst these.

Q. How many murders have there been during the last four years ?- A. About three or four murders ; but only one conviction of manslaughter. This murder on Fisguard street was amongst the merchants. There are upwards of one hundred women here. Their characters are very low, almost all prostitutes. White people get into trouble with them, men having been robbed in their houses. White men-chiefly young lads of nineteen and twenty years of age frequent these houses. I have frequently driven them away. The women do not drink, but all smoke opium and tobacco. They are as a rule very particular and neat in their dress. They do not introduce venereal diseases amongst the population any more than white prostitutes. I cannot say whether they have leprosy cases amongst them. I know only of one case, the man being in prison. Two Chinese doctors have seen him and said it was a bad case, though Dr. Helmcken said it was not leprosy. This man was in a solitary cell at the time, and was discharged; but has since been confined for vagrancy. While in gaol he was very much emaciated ; his skin seemed to be break- ing out in sores, and his feet turned black. I do not know of any white doctors visiting other cases such as this, only Chinese doctors, and they use the term leprosy in defining the disease. I do not know what leprosy is exactly. The chief objections to Chinese is on account of the impossi- bility to trace crime amongst them, their unclean premises and opium- smoking. I have no faith in their women, and have been told that it is only the lower class who are allowed to leave China. I believe the Chinese government do not allow them to leave; but they are smuggled away by these old Chinese women. Some of the women here are married ; but they are usually kept in their houses. I have accompanied Mr. Bull, when collecting the municipal road-tax, and great difficulty was experienced in collecting it, except where the owner is known, when you frequently seize their goods in order to collect this tax. Opium-smoking is chiefly carried on in their own dens, and is an intoxicant.

Mr. DAVIE suggested that Sergeant Flewin be asked, as to their condition when brought to the gaol ?

Sergeant FLEWIN : Nine cases out of ten, when brought to prison, their head and queues are covered with vermin. In January last eleven or twelve cases were brought to gaol, and the majority of these had vermin. The Indians, as a rule, are very dirty ; out of eleven or twelve of these the state of filth and vermin would be about the same, especially among the Chinooks. The white people of the same class are also just as bad, that is,

FLEWIN

the whiskey drinkers. In winter there are about double the population of White whiskey Chinese in Victoria, when the canneries and railway works are closed down. The laboring classes are industrious as a rule. Those who go out garden-

drinkers just as bad.

ing, chopping wood, etc., are cleanly. Most of the Chinese seem to know The laborers in- how to read and write in their own language. They are very careful of dustrious and their money. A great number gamble; but few with the whites. The clean. characters of the white people who gamble with them are on a par with the Chinese, and are an undesirable class, giving us the most trouble, and are usually known as "gaol-birds."

Mr. DAVIE here suggested Mr. Dunsmuir might be heard on the subject, and by doing so others might be induced to come forth also.

Mr. Justice GRAY : Mr. Dunsmuir has already been communicated with, and signified his willingness to appear.

Mr. Justice GRAY to the ATTORNEY-GENERAL: I wish to ask if the return, already asked for of the number of convictions against Chinese criminals for the past nine or ten years, is ready ?

Mr. DAVIE : The Government will be unable to compile the statistics asked for with reference to the number of Chinese criminals and the cost they are to the crown. There are not a great many convictions, these being principally for offences against the whites ; but the difficulty is in proportioning them. However, the number of Chinese who have been convicted, and as much of the required information, will be prepared at once.

HON. A. E. B. DAVIE, Attorney-General, examined . 1

DAVIE.

I have been resident in the province over twenty-two years and am bar- Opportunities for rister-at-law by profession, and been engaged in my profession as clerk and character. observing Chinese barrister since 1862, having been engaged as counsel for the crown and attorney-general, at assizes both upon the mainland and the Island, and have had considerable opportunity of observing the Chinese character. Generally speaking they are not truthful witnesses, indeed it is extremely difficult, so far as they are concerned, to find out the facts of any case. This is, I think, more from a desire on their part not to give the truth than from the difficulty of interpreting. So much so has this been the case it has been recognized generally by jurors, so much so that it has led to a failure of justice. White people, to my knowledge, have escaped owing to juries distrusting the Chinese. Speaking without statistics, my impression is, in the past, there has been a greater number of criminal Chinese cases than Chinese testimony were recently, although the population has increased, which I cannot unreliable. account for. Certain it is, however, that crimes which have been known to have been committed by themselves, especially homicides and assaults, notwithstanding the expense put to by the Government, their efforts have generally failed, on account of their showing a reluctance to give informa- tion. As an illustration: Some two or three years ago a Chinawoman Difficulty in de- and Chinaman were found murdered and hacked to pieces by knives, and tecting crime. to cover the tracks of the murder the house was set fire to. The supposed murderer went and changed his clothes, and the person in whose house the clothes were changed would not come forward and give evidence to this. The police could not obtain any information, although the crime was known to have been committed only two or three hours before.

DAVIE

Government de- frauded out of le- gacy duty.

Feeling against Chinese universal.

Q. How was it known he had changed his clothes ?- A. The fact was he had clean clothes on him when arrested, and the night before the accused had been with the woman at a banquet, and he made the remark at the police court he had worn those clothes over a week, when in fact they were quite new. We find that the knowledge of crime is kept amongst themselves, and if dealt with are dealt with by themselves. With estates of Chinese they do not make wills, and the intestate estates dealt with by the court are very few; thus the Government is defrauded out of its proper revenues, and have no means as far as we go of ascertaining the extent of property possessed by any deceased Chinaman. I am inclined to think they are rather astute in this matter, and on account of polygamy amongst them it- would be very difficult to ascertain their relatives in their own country, and this is perhaps why they do not bring their estates for administration. The number of Chinese families are very few ; they come here for the purpose of making money and take it out of the country. That is one complaint of the white people in the place. Speaking as a person having sometime been in politics, as far as I go, I can state that the feeling against the Chinese is universal and widespread. The workingmen of the country are certainly opposed to their immigration, and they really consider, the Chinese themselves, there are too many of them in the country. I may say, so far as the criminal statistics are concerned, I have sent to Mr. McBride, at New Westminster, for the past four or five years' records, and during that period there will be few instances of Chinese convictions for the reasons I have already mentioned.

Cannot assimi- late. Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : There is no chance of assimilation with other people ?- A. No, they are a foreign element, and certainly there was no desire for it from the whites, and probably none on the part of the Chinese, and apparently always will be so. I am bound to admit that the rapidity the Rapid progress of Canadian Pacific Railway has progressed in this country is owing to railway due to Chinese labor. Chinese labor. We got along for a long number of years without them, and, admitting they have been useful, their presence has kept out other labor that would have come in by the mere fact of their being amongst. us. I cannot say whether the same amount of capital would have been spent in the province, had they not been here, although, I know capitalists have employed Chinamen, and they might have been an inducement for its. 18,000 in the pro- outlay. I believe there are about 18,000 of them in the province. We vince. have not had to support Chinese immigrants. I am unaware whether the Chinese have subscribed to the Royal Hospital in this city or not, I have reason to think the leading Chinese have. They have contributed in a fair proportion to the rest of the community to the late colliery disaster at Nanaimo. I cannot say what the amount of tax is they contribute to- wards the schools, only by examining the hutt end of the books. The Chinese children are admitted to the schools, but very few of them are here, and this privilege is never availed of. I do not know whether they have been cared for in regard to those who have no visible means of support. Instances have been known where the Chinese have left their fellow-countrymen when in a destitute condition. A case of this sort happened at New Westminster, where a man was left out in a tent and died there.

Inhumanity.

Hon, Mr. Justice GRAY : I remember this case ; it was not exactly 80. It was tried before me, and the facts were these : The man was taken out into a tent at his own request, owing to a disease, and died within twenty-four hours. A man was left with him. The

DAVIE

accused parties were therefore discharged, the jury bringing in a verdict of not guilty.

Q. Is there a secret organization which tries their own cases ?- A. No, they are reluctant to give information. The Government has not tried to obtain the services of a white interpreter, though, I may say, there are first-rate Chinese interpreters. Undoubtedly it would be beneficial to have a white interpreter. Personating one another is one of the difficulties the tax-collector has to meet, the Chinese, being so similar in features; and it has been suggested, in case of necessity, they be photographed. It might be done, but I hardly think it practicable to make the register for the pur- pose of tax-collecting. They do not associate with the whites at all, even the best classes. The Indians did not associate with them, much more so the working classes. Opium-smoking, according to the reports of the police officers, is carried on by the white people in these dens, but I do not know what class of people they are.

A white interpre- ter beneficial.

Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : Is the habit of opium-smoking carried on to such an Opium-smoking. extent that it is injurious to the public health, peace or morality? Are their bad habits more public than those of the whites ? A. As to opium-smok- ing, I have seen the Chinese under the influence of it, but cannot say I have observed it particularly. I have not witnessed the bad effects gener- ally, though I have seen the bad after effects on them.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : The mayor stated yesterday that the Chinese Why white set- never became settlers, and the desire was that white people should become tlers have not come. so ; is the statement that the reason white people do not come here on account of the presence of Chinese correct, or is it on account of the lock- ing-up of the railway lands ? - A. Expressing simply an opinion, I think the presence of Chinese deters white immigrants and settlers from coming here. One great cause of white settlers not coming here has been the embargo on the railway lands, which was taken off quite recently. It is not true a great number of settlers have left the country. A great many families have gone into the delta of the Fraser the past year. If I were a laborer East, I should be very reluctant to come here knowing so many Chinese were in the country. The cost of getting here has been one cause why white people have not come here. The labor market, that is particularly for labor, is good. A laborer will usually find a market for his labor, but finds he can- not get on when the Chinese compete against him. Manufactories put up by white people have not perished on account of Chinese labor. Kurtz's cigar manufactory employs all white labor. The white population here is obliged to have Chinese labor for domestic purposes as we cannot get Cannot get white white servants. The occupation of Chinamen in the interior is chiefly min- domestic servants. ing-that is, not speaking of railway construction. In Cariboo, there are from 700 to 1,000 engaged in mining - working on their own account at what is termed "shell labor." They will not go first into the mines, but only follow after the whites, taking up old ground and working it over again.

Q. Are there many given to agricultural pursuits ?- A. Chiefly gardening. Chinese employ- When they are successful they live on meat, etc., when they do well. ments. 'Taking 2,000 or 3,000 as being in Victoria and for railway construction -at about 6,000, I do not think 18,000 too high a figure to estimate the 18,000 in province. Chinese population of the province. There are many engaged at the can- meries up the coast. I think there are more than 3,000 in Victoria.

DÁVIE

The people wish that no more should come.

As a representative man, I may say I believe the great bulk of the people wish no more to come here, and it is a deep-rooted feeling. This feel- ing has not been crammed by politicians. I believe the anti-Chinese feel- ing is genuine, and not a polical clap-trap, as it has been stigmatized. The feeling is those at present will have to stay, and that a prohibi- tive measure is what is sought for. I believe it to be a strong- personal feeling, though there may be some found who would come forward to urge them to come into the country as formerly, but they are decidedly in the minority. The English, Scotch or Irish do not like the Chinese. The reason why the restriction law is evaded to such an extent in California is, because, I presume, it is defective. The Chinese are a much greater source of expense to the Government, in regard to justice, than the whites. A crime is detected and every effort put forward in order to find it out. The reason is, it takes a much longer time to investigate than a crime amongst whites.

Chinese crime more expensive than white crime.

Police returns show that the Chinese are more burdensome than others to adminis- tration of justice.

Q. What proof have you to furnish the people of the other provinces that the expenses they entail on the administration of justice is heavier in proportion than that caused by white people ?- A. By the police returns ; and the trials are always longer where interpreters are used, as it takes a longer time to get the evidence. We get along with the Indians first-rate.

Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : Do you consider sincerely that if the question of Chinese restriction is not acceded to it will materially affect the progress of the country ?- A. Yes; I think the anti-Chinese feeling is not abating,. but rather increasing.

VICTORIA, B.C., August 14th, 1884.

HELMCKEN. Dr. HELMCKEN, examined :

Increase in Chi- nese immigration within past few months. I have been in British Columbia since 1850. I am a medical man, and practising my profession the whole time. My diploma is from the Royal College of Surgeons, London, England. I am acquainted with all ordin- ary diseases peculiar to human beings. The Chinese came here first about fourteen or fifteen years ago, but I cannot tell exactly. Their number has been perpetually increasing as the demand offered. The increase has been greater the past few months on account of public works. I have never seen more than two cases of leprosy since I have been in the country, one in an Indian before the Chinese arrived, and one about eight or ten years ago- this a Chinaman. With regard to the man in the prison mentioned by Sergeant Bloomfield, he came into the prison for stealing, I think, and after he arrived in the prison the question arose as to his being a leper, and that he be liberated ; and I said the Chinese doctors had better see him as they were acquainted with the disease, and after doing so they said he had the leprosy, giving a certificate to that effect, and upon that certi- ficate the man was kept in prison after his sentence had expired. He was afterwards liberated. The same man, I am informed this morning, has just been brought into prison again, not on account of leprosy but for Leprosy not con- stealing. According to the best medical authorities, leprosy is not con- sidered a contagious or infectious disease. To-day it exists in Norway and Sweden, and also in the Mediterranean countries. I do not know that it is necessary a leper should be locked up. Leprosy is incurable, and per- sons so affected are usually put in some place for incurable diseases. The disease may go on for years. In the Sandwich Islands lepers are separ-

Leprosy.

tagious.

ated from the healthy. The peculiar indications of leprosy vary-in one affecting the skin, another the nervous system. The skin kind is more like syphilis. It is more or less hereditary ; and in some families there might be a leper. People residing and cohabiting with them do not take the disease. I cannot tell you whether it has been found the same in Australia, as I have no reliable information. I do not know of a single white person having leprosy in this country, only having known two cases of leprosy, as I said before, one an Indian leper, which was before the Chinese arrived, and a Chinaman. The Indian, therefore, did not contract it from the Chinese. Leprosy is not only found amongst the Chinese, but Leprosy apper- affects the whole of humanity. It has, however, disappeared from Europe, tries and marshy except Norway and Sweden, Finland, and the Mediterranean. There places. are more cases in China and the East ; it seems to appertain to hot coun- tries chiefly, and marshy places. I do not think the cause of the disease is known. Of course, nowadays it is a " Bacillus." If there was a case of leprosy in Victoria now it would be the duty of the police to report the same to the city anthorities, the same as a case of small-pox. I have been the visiting surgeon of the jail ever since it was built-from the time I came to the country. This appointment is under the local govern- ment. There may have been cases of leprosy amongst the Chinese, they not letting any one know about it ; but I do not think so, for this reason : that the Chinese are afraid of it themselves. They would evidently shun them and so make them marked. On the general health condition of the Thinks health of Chinese in Victoria, I cannot speak authoritatively on this subject, for the reason they do not speak English, so we are not called upon to attend them when sick ; but I think the health of the Chinese is as good as the whites, according to the death-rate, though I do not know the exact num- ber of Chinese resident here. Generally speaking, the white people would, of course, much rather have the same number of whites amongst them- their own race. One objection to Chinese, I think, is they do not speak English. They cannot communicate their ideas to us nor we to them, therefore we are in the dark. Many of the things on this account that we Objections to Chi- hear about them may not be strictly true; and if they could speak English nese. well I think our relations would be better. No one likes a foreigner who can only speak his mother tongue. Another objection is that the Chinese can never be made militiamen. They remain Chinamen, and do not become Remain isolated. citizens ; so they are always foreigners. It is not desirable to have a colony of Chinese instead of British subjects. Their morals, of course, are Morals Asiatic .. Asiatic, and different to ours. Their immorality I do not think is any worse than that of the whites. Wickedness is the natural tendency of everyone. I have heard of one or two cases where the Chinese are said to have corrupted the morals of children, but these have never been sub- stantiated. I believe the Chinese, on the other hand, are fond of children, Does not believe: they corrupt chil- and I never knew of them abusing them. They are not like the negroes in dren. the South. If they corrupted the morals of the children they would not be employed. Any case of this kind happening would have been brought into the police court. Remember that the children are usually looked after by girls or female servants, of whom a large number are employed- larger, indeed, than the number of Chinese as domestic servants. I think Number of Chi- nese as domestic servants over- rated. the number of Chinese employed as domestic servants in Victoria is over- rated. I doubt whether they would exceed 150, some being employed by bachelors. They are usually confined to kitchen service and its relations. I am not reckoning in this number those employed in hotels, out-door work, and so forth. Many who keep Chinese cooks keep also female servants.

HELMCKEN

tains to hot coun-

Chinese as good as that of the whites ..

HELMCKEN

Country benefited by the Chinese.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : Have they been injurious or beneficial to the development of the resources of the country ? A. I say the country has been benefited by the influx of Chinese. Before the Chinese came it was almost impossible to get vegetables of any kind, and any that were to be got were only at a high figure and of no good quality. When they arrived they established mar- Market gardens and laundries. ket gardens and succeeded, as their industry is wonderful. Their gardens are very well cultivated. The few vegetable gardens that existed before they came were afterwards done away with. They established laundries, and now monopolize this business. In the next place, there were no manu- factories of any importance until the Chinese came, and white people then Boot and shoe fac- established a boot and shoe manufactory, for instance. The same number of white people would not have established the boot and shoe factory, and the reason given for it was that factories here could not compete with those of California and outside places, owing to not being able to compete with the Chinese labor there. The canneries, I think, tried to get along with white labor, but had to give it up. I think they could not have grown and flourished if it had not been for Chinese labor. I am, however, told the Indians now supply, in some cases, the places of the Chinese in the north, about Metlakatla, but not south or on the Fraser River. The Chinese have cultivated the soil, raised vegetables, are employed in tanneries, and at the canneries, in boot and shoe-making, some in coal and gold mining, and other labors Having done these things, they have benefited the country. They have been producers-the one thing the country stands in need of. They have made exports. They were wanted, and so they sup- plied a demand.

tories.

'Canneries tried to get along with white labor but failed.

Manufacturers and producers.

The Chinese a check on labor monopoly. Q. Do you think they will prove a benefit in the future to the country ? -- A. I believe it would be an advantage to have the same number of white people; but I do not think they would or could spare the Chinese. There is this disadvantage : white people would have the monopoly of the labor market. The Chinese, I believe, to be a check on this. They have been undeniably useful as domestic servants. When they were first employed tic servants. Useful as domes- in Victoria as servants it was impossible to get anyone else except Indians. I think now the people employing them have got so accustomed to them that they think they would never be able to do without them, as they are really good, attentive, regular and intelligent. Englishmen could not supply their places. They seem fit for gigantic things ; Chinese favor little things. They are willing and wish to learn. What their brain takes in they can execute with their hands. Of course all are not equally intelli- gent. Many are poor and of low caste, but remember they inherit the brain of a civilization of thousands of years dormant, but ready to take in new ideas and progress. They take to anything, any trade or business, and will pick them up very quickly. Their imitative faculties are very great, though I do not know what their inventive genius is. A large number learn the English language, and at one time went to a private school and Hard to say whe- ther they will be paid for their education. Many can read and write. I cannot read the beneficial in the future. I cannot say whether they will be equally beneficial in the future. It is hard to draw a line. Rain is beneficial, but people complain of too much of it. Benefits in excess become vices. There is very little intercourse existing between the Chinese and the whites. The whites do not associate with them, and immorality cannot therefore come from the Chinese only. The old story of living in glass houses may perhaps find place here. I said the Chinese had been very useful and indeed necessary. I said I cannot read the future, and I do not know what

·Chinese versati- lity.

future.

HELMCKEN

works may require them ; but I think it will be for the interest of the Would be for the Chinese themselves, and I believe the Chinese think so too, that any benefit of Chinese themselves that no duced to come. further numbers should be induced not to come. Ist. Because there are more should be in- plenty now to supply all requirements. 2nd. Because when railway work is finished a very large number will be thrown out of employment, and so probably be a burden upon other Chinese and a trouble to the province. They will either have to go home, or, something worse, find their way across the Rockies to old Canada, as they cannot go to the United States. 3rd. Because, doubtless, there will continue to be a persecution and dislike of the Chinese. There cannot be a doubt of this dislike. It seems to be an instinctive antipathy of race. This antipathy will be encouraged by The instinctive trades unions, and I need not say it may be by interested parties. Instinc- antipathy of race will grow. tive antipathy may be the result of education. It exists among European nations. It may lead to trouble here as it has elsewhere. Men are the same as ever, as witness the persecution of the Jews to-day-another Eastern race-another instinctive dislike. The merchants, also, do not like them ; because, as the Chinese trade chiefly among themselves, they do the merchants but little good. In fact the same number of whites would do them more good in trade, and so forth-i.e., supposing they could have the same number of whites,-as it is the Chinese compete with them; but at present chiefly in China goods. 4th. Because any number of Chinese can be had at any time they may be required, by simply sending for them. The whole question seems to resolve itself into : 1st, an antagonism of The laborers feel race-a non-English speaking race ; 2nd, a feeling of the laborers against take their work that the Chinese the Chinese, because the Chinese take their work and take it at a cheaper and take it cheap- er. rate ; on the other hand a feeling against employers who employ them. The laborers and employers of labor are in antagonism. A case merely of preservation on both sides. Of course the Chinese are useful and neces- sary ; on the other hand too many Chinese are not desirable. It is difficult to say how many are requisite. It is not a question that can be settled by or reduced to a rule-of-three sum. It is a national and political A national and po- question. litical question.

. How many Chinese should we have ? i.e., is there any danger of Few desire to send their overrunning the country ?- A. At all events very few require the Chinese now here to be sent away. They will be, and have been, treated those in the coun- try away. in the courts the same as the whites, as regards freedom, and justice, and fairness.

Q. So competition will not end with restriction ?- A. Indeed it is a If white laborers question, or part of the national policy, i. e., whether white laborers are protected some to be protected against competition with Chinese and other foreign must cease. manufactures laborers, or whether there is to be free trade in laborers. If white laborers are protected by excluding foreigners, then some of British Columbia's manufactures and products must cease and determine. If, on the contrary, they are not protected, then the white laborers say the Chinese will beat them out of the field, and so discourage an increase of the white population. I suppose the same may be But white immi- urged against labor-saving machines. What the Chinese may have discouraged. gration may be to say of their rights, by treaty and natural laws, is for them to declare. They do not speak English, so we don't know. We occupy a different position to the Australians. We expect to have a large trade with China by the overland route, over the C. P. R., so we must have communication with the Chinese. We must expect and endure some evil bears on trade The question as it for the good. If the two classes could understand each other they would with China. get along better.

The Chinese have supplied a want- but the need for Q. Is the presence of the Chinese a danger to the material prospects of the country in regard to wealth, comfort and liberty ?- A. I have said their services may before, the presence of the Chinese has been an advantage to the cease. country, what the future may be I cannot say. There is this to be said : The Chinese have supplied a want; but when that demand fails it is a different thing.

Q. If there is any danger in the Chinese overrunning the country, why do the people employ them ?- A. If they are not employed they would have to go elsewhere. There is an antipathy, however, existing as it does between Asiatics and Europeans ; and I believe if they were Hindoos there would be the same.

Q. Are Englishmen disliked in China ?- A. I should think they are. White people are arrogant; it is their nature. It is many years since I was in China. Wherever an Englishman gets his foot he will get his body. If Chinese were warlike we should be less uncivil and less aggressive. There is an evil connected with the Chinese : they bring their habits with them ; they have been accustomed to crowding, and they huddle up together here. They have a very small portion of the city here. Crowded and dirty rather from choice, perhaps, than necessity. Chinese, nevertheless, are cleanly in their persons. I have never had much to do with Chinese in regard to their keeping their engagements. I think to those who treat the Chinese well they will keep their engagements-that is, among domestics. They will, if harshly treated, pack up their traps and go. I have been told by mechanics that the Chinese are always on time and leave as punctually, everything going on as clock-work. I have been told by those employing Chinamen they like Chinese for their punc- tuality, sobriety and regularity of attendance. They can be depended on from day to day and week to week

Chinese workmen reliable.

Q. Do they take care of their poor and sick ?- A. As a rule, speaking generally, the Chinese require no assistance from the white men. They never beg for their poor from the whites. There are few cases where Chinese go to the hospitals. I believe they do not care to go to our hos- pitals, and I believe they are no burden on the British.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : I wish to read three allegations, and are they true in your opinion ? One statement is the Chinese have introduced leprosy on this coast and afflicted many white people with this terrible disease ?--- A. I have said before I have never seen a single white man with leprosy ; and only one Chinaman and one Indian, years ago.

Q. Are the youths of the coast being corrupted and depraved by these people? A. This is a question I cannot answer. I take it before the advent of the Chinese there was plenty of vice, and I cannot say whether it has in- creased with the Chinese. Probably the Chinese women have taken the business out of the hands of Indian women. The one cannot be more public than the other.

Not true that Chi- nese had caused the habits of Q. Are there now hundreds of men and women that are irredeemably lost in this place by the vice of opium-smoking ?- A. I do not know of opium-smoking to hundreds of men and women lost by the use or abuse of opium. I know spread among the whites. perfectly well some few gamblers use opium. I know perfectly well some few women use opium. I think these cases are very few, and very few have come professionally before me; if many I should have seen them. I am

HELMCKEN

certain the allegation is a vile, malicious fabrication of the habit of smoking opium. I know this habit did not come with the Chinese. Opium-eating is a vice of England; it exists in New York. It is a vice, but how common it may be here it is impossible for me to say ; and, as I have said before, I have seen few cases brought before me here ; so it must be very uncommon to say the least.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : There is one more question I wish to ask. It has been alleged in the Houses of Parliament that the white ladies are scrubbed by Chinese whilst in their baths. Is that true ?

Dr. HELMCKEN : It is a lie.

CHARLES WILSON, of the firm of Davie and Wilson, Barristers, examined WILSON. by the Hon. MR. CHAPLEAU :

I am a member of the local legislature and a barrister by profession. 1,200 Chinese in Cariboo. I am at present residing in Victoria. I have been in Cariboo four- teen years, and represent that district. I left Cariboo on the 14th November, 1882. There are about 1,100 or 1,200 Chinese in Cariboo, as far as the circuit of the local legislative district is concerned, according to the census of 1881, and they have increased 200 or 300 since then ; the white population has decreased a little since then. The classes of Chinese They clean out old who are in Cariboo are chiefly laborers, knowing nothing about mining but mining claims. have learned it there. They clean out old mining claims.

Q. When they arrive here do they generally come in good health and fit Generally arrive for work ?- A. They generally arrive in Cariboo in good health, as they in good health. have to pack their tools and mining implements on foot.

Q. Are they a burden to public charity, or to private parties, or to They have their white men, for their poor and sick ? A. No, they are not a burden on ments in regard to own arrange- the community ; they are not alone in that respect, neither are Jews. poor and sick. They carry a system amongst themselves, having their own arrange- ments apparently in regard to their poor and sick as well as their laws of justice.

Q. The Forks of Quesnelle River is entirely occupied by Chinese. Have you ever been at one of their trials when they have been administering their laws of justice ?- A. No, sir ; the only white resident at Forks of Quesnelle, Mr. Stevenson, a government agent, attended upon one occasion their own tribunal ; but for what the case was I do not know.

Q. Was it for a private offence or litigation ?- A. I do not know. I notice in Cariboo we never have any trouble except between two distinct classes of Chinese.

Q. Are the Chinese law-abiding or turbulent ?- A. They are sober and Sober and indus- industrious, and fairly peaceable citizens. trious.

Q. Do they carry out their engagements with the white people gene- Informed that Chi- rally ?- To a certain extent, yes. With the higher classes of Chinese, C. of a low type. nese coming to B. certainly, yes ; but with the lower classes I should not trust them. The Chinese coming here, I am informed, are of an extremely low type. Upon one occasion one of our judges and myself visited a house where a merchant was sitting at the table, another inferior Chinaman being present also, and

WILSON

the judge asked the merchant what class his inferior fellow-countryman was, and he replied : "Oh, he belongs to number ten," thus showing how many classes there are of them.

'Chinese and min- :ing. Q. When the Chinese first came here, was their coming welcomed ? -- A. Their coming was resisted at first in Cariboo-in fact force was at one time used ; but one by one they got in and gained a foot- hold, and to get rid of them now would amount to war. With respect to their having been needed, there is no class of labor that has created greater injury in gold mining, and there is no work they are less adapted for than mining. They follow what miners call lazy labor. Where they get gold they leave nothing behind. The white miner is the pioneer for discovery, the Chinaman following him, cleaning everything up- what the white miner leaves in search of richer diggings and what he would fall back on in case of a rainy day. The white man is always seeking for something better ; the Chinese always follow after and clean up everything. The Chinese never pay a mining license if they can help it, and never take out a claim ; the white man always pays his way.

'Doubts if Chinese labour is useful.

Q. Do you consider the Chinese here useful for certain fields of labor which cannot be supplied in any other manner ?- A. I have some doubt about it. In some places they are employed in factories, but it has the effect of deteriorating a white population from coming in.

White men can- not compete with · Chinese labour.

Q. If a manufacturer likes to employ them, cannot the white people work for the same wages ?- A. No, they cannot work alongside the Chinese; the avenues of labor are shut out from them, as it is impossible to compete with them. Some manufacturers look at it from a money point of view : they do not care whether they are benefiting the country or not, as they do well themselves; they look to the immediate gain not to the future.

In domestic ser- vice white women would be pre- be got. Q. Is there much white labor unemployed ?- A. I am hardly in a posi- tion to answer this question. I think the white people who come find the ferred could they Chinese in places which they would like to fill. I think in the case of servants that the whites would employ white servants if they could only get them, as I believe Chinese servants would be dismissed in many cases to make room for them. I feel that way myself.

Q. What observation have you made in regard to the effect of their immorality on the whites ?- A. I do not know, as there are no young lads in Cariboo, so any immoral effect would not be produced there.

. Evade taxation.

Q. Are the Chinese worse in Cariboo in their habits than other people in similar positions ?- A. Their vices are kept to themselves. They are of two distinct classes. If it was of a barbarous nature we could do something with them. I have mentioned to you the fact that these people constantly evade taxation, they defraud the provincial revenue. In the case of collect- ing the poll-tax, it is found very few white men escape ; but few payments are made by the Chinese, as shown by the amount collected from them when looking at the census. The collectors in the different districts know every white man residing in them, so the deficiency is wholly with the Chinese. Forty-eight hundred dollars should be the amount of taxation collected. By a law to sell opium their license is two to four hundred dollars for six months. There is only one man in Cariboo paying this license. They evade

WILSON.

this tax in this way: A merchant has a poor servant as slave, and if caught when the fine is exacted they will send this slave to prison, rather than pay the fine, as it is far cheaper to do this. I know of no instance where white men use opium in Cariboo.

Q. Have there been many prosecutions for selling opium without a Opium license ?- A. Only some two or three ; it is impossible to do it.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : Your observations are chiefly confined to your experience whilst in Cariboo ?- A. Yes; I have not been much in contact with them in Victoria.

Q. Do you consider the feeling of the people in your constituency is Public feeling in favor of allowing a free immigration of this kind ?- A. The general against Chinese feeling of the people is certainly strongly in favor of restricting further immigration. immigration. I may say if we had not the 1,200 Chinese as now em- ployed in Cariboo, there would be the same number of white people.

Q. Are there several companies employing Chinese in your district ?- Employed by com- A. Yes, there are several companies, and white companies, too, employing panics. Chinese labor. In many instances they are companies composed of, how- ever, poor men, and in order to pay their men live as it were from hand to mouth and on credit. These same men would be glad if possible to employ white people if they were in a position, but two or three bits a day is a great object to them, so hiring cheap labor is a necessity. We must not overlook the fact we are establishing a British colony. It is true we lony we want loyal may have less capital, but it would be more beneficial in the end having Queen, subjects of the loyal subjects to the Queen.

W. K. BULL, examined by the Hon. MR. CHAPLEAU :

BULL.

I am a resident of Victoria, and a government official. I am provin- How Chinese first cial and municipal tax-collector. I have been a resident of Victoria came. twenty years. The Chinese immigration began, I think, in British Col- umbia eight or ten years ago. I think they found their way here from San Francisco and the other side, after the cessation of labor and public works in California. The first capacity they engaged in was washing clothes, and as domestic servants, and other inferior labor. A limited A limited number number is not objectionable. I do favor Chinese restriction, as it not objectionable .. would divert the capital which would result from white labor. Too many is objectionable. I can cite no particular individual case as to the effect of Chinese labor brought into competition with white labor, but I speak of the evil of too many Chinese in a general sense.

Q. What taxes are you called upon to collect from the Chinese here ?- Taxes collected A. The provincial tax for the government, which includes the school tax, from Chinese. and the road tax for the corporation. These are the only two. The pro- vincial tax is $3 per head, the road tax $2 per head. The Chinese do not contribute anything nearly as much to the revenue as they ought to do. 3,000 in Victoria The Chinese population of Victoria is about 3,000.

Q. What means have you for ascertaining that is the population ?- A. Only from general observation and going around ; it is only supposition. I have no assessment-roll for collecting, as it is impossible, owing to their-

In a British Co --

BULL

constantly moving about. I keep a list, however, of names from whom I collect. I collect, or try to collect, from every person over eighteen years of age.

750 Chinese down on assessment-roll, but last year some 1,400 paid. Q. From the list just mentioned, how many Chinese names have you as having paid ? A. About 750 have their names down. Last year there were more, but this year they are poorer. Last year, I think about 1,300 or 1,400 paid. The late fire seemed completely to have revolution- ized them, burning their quarters and making them remove to other places, as before I knew where to find them pretty well. Formerly there were two Chinese theatres running, but now there is not one. There is a Difficulty of col lecting taxes. great difficulty in getting at them. Many are now so poor that there is nothing to seize in case they will not pay their taxes but a table or chair. Those who were employed on the railway last year have gone on the mainland, and new comers have not any employment, and the canneries this season are employing very few. I can furnish the names on the assessment-roll to the Commission. They have paid about the same in proportion to each of the two taxes. The wealthy class of Chinese do not assist me in my collections ; they never seem to show any disposition to point out to the lower classes the necessity of contributing to the general revenue. With those who are getting good wages, say $30 a month, I often have to argue the question of the school tax, as when they are asked school tax out of them. Generally gets the for it they say they do not go to school, but I usually get the best of the argument-that is, I get the tax. They do not evade paying the tax by passing the receipts given them to other parties. We cannot summons them ; only seize their goods.

Opium.

Q. Can you give us an idea as to the condition of their tenements ?- A. Some are in very bad condition, with bad smells around ; but there are new buildings which are better. Their clothes are as clean as most people of the same class, with no objectionable smell only as far as opium is concerned. Their crowding together does not seem to affect them the same as it would white people, though many look miserable. There does not appear to be any great amount of sickness amongst them. I have not come across any white people being depraved by opium, never having seen white people in their houses. There is no mixing of loose white women with them. I have only heard of one instance where a white woman was found smoking in one of their dens. She was a young woman, and I think a half-caste Indian. I do not think she was a loose woman exactly, only had a strong desire for opium.

Had come across no white persons depraved by opium.

Q. Is it true that Chinese servants have corrupted the morals of white children ?- A. There may be an isolated case ; that is all.

Chinamen do not scrub white ladies iin their baths.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY: In the evidence given before the House of Commons, it has been stated white women employ Chinamen to scrub them whilst in their baths ?- A. I have never heard of that, never having heard a complaint in this respect.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY: It is discreditable that, without positive evi- dence, such a statement should have been made before the Committee of the House of Commons and placed on record. It is evidence which has the effect of destroying the fair fame of the female sex of this city and country ; and such careless and unauthorized statements are calculated to create an improper impression in the East.

BULL

Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : I do not suppose the impression from such a source would be very deep.

Hon. A. E. B. DAVIE here handed in papers showing the police evidence taken in regard to the Fisguard street murder, remarking: They will show the Commission how difficult it is to obtain the truth from Chinese witnesses.

Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY : There can be no doubt as to the difficulty of obtaining truthful evidence from the Chinese.

JOHN JESSOP, examined by the Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY ; JESSOP.

I am the Dominion agent ; and have been seventeen months provin- Instance in which cial immigration agent and Dominion Government agent. My duty is to Chinese interfered with white men give information to new arrivals. I keep a record of all applicants for getting work. lands and work, and answer all correspondence. Previous to that, some seven or eight years, I was superintendent of education. I have had my attention directed to the Chinese in this country, especially at the com- mencement of this year. In my official capacity I have never had any- thing to do with them at all. I think that during the three months end- ing with April there must have been 400 or 500 white immigrants seeking employment exclusively, who were induced by the government hand-book to come here in view of obtaining work, as it set forth the dry-dock would be commenced, and the graving-dock and Island railway also ; these men expecting to work as laborers and afterwards to settle on land. My advice was, therefore, after being disappointed, to direct them to the dif- ferent districts to cut cord-wood, etc .; but they found the Chinese already employed, and could not work at the same rate as paid these people. Many left very angry, and some suggested the province should be called "Chinese Columbia" instead of British Columbia. Last year there was plenty of work, because white labor was not in excess of the demand ; the demand on account of the canneries and other industries up the coast was considerable, and the immigration was not so large last year as this. I have no means of ascertaining what the number of white settlers are this year. I can only refer to the Immigrants' Guide as to the number of applicants.

Q. Were there no lands to give these immigrants to settle on ?__ Fifty heads of fa- A. Yes ; at New Westminster. Many have gone up the east coast since Cowichan settle- milies gone to the Island railway lands have been open to preemption by Parliament, I ment. think. I think fifty heads of families have gone to the Cowichan settle- ment, and four or five to Alberni, and twenty or twenty-five heads of families have settled between Nanaimo and Comox. I do not think fifty heads of families will represent 150 people, as many have not brought the whole of their family out as yet.

Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : Do you think settlers are coming in a whole- Chinese and mar- some proportion ?- A. I think so. I have been receiving communi- ket gardening. cations from market-gardeners as to the chances of their succeeding in that branch of industry. I have told them that the Chinese monopolize that branch here, but that I do not think but what they would White girls will succeed if they came. One objection is white girls coming here will not not work where work where Chinamen are kept, as there is a great antipathy to them. employed. Chinese are

One instance I may give of this : A good, sturdy Scotch girl, directed by me for employment in a white family as domestic servant, tried it, and, although she was willing to do almost anything, she left the situation be- cause she would not work with a Chinaman employed in the house. I think the English gardeners would succeed in business if they turned their attention to it. I am not aware that the Italians have driven the Chinese out of the market from San Francisco, as mentioned before the House of Commons in Canada.

ready to work with them at the same rates.

But for antipathy to Chinese the Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU : Chinese work only for good wages ?- A. The whites would be wages paid to Chinese the white servants would be quite willing to accept, were it not for the antipathy to them. I think that such as cutting cord-wood at Chinese rates white men would undertake, but I think they would like to do it only temporary. It is a fact that white labor has succeeded in the manufacture of cigars in spite of Chinese labor. The Chinese are an industrious and quiet population in the locality, not. knowing anything to the contrary.

Hon. JOHN ROBSON, Provincial Secretary, examined :

I have been resident in this province since June, 1859, and a member of the government here since January last, twelve months.

Chinese, before the railway works, came from Cali- fornia

Q. At what date began the agitation which now exists against Chinese immigration to this province ?- A. I think it commenced as a political question in 1872. The population of Chinese then was not large, but it was beginning to be made felt. They came from California. I do not think there was a direct cargo brought from China till after the railway works commenced.

Thinks about 6,000 Chinese employed

Q. What means have you of ascertaining the number of them on railway works. in the province ?- A It has been lately nothing more than guess work ; no census has been taken of the Chinese population. I am speaking of the provincial efforts. There was, however, some loose attempts made last year to see how many were employed on the railway works. I think it was estimated at 6,000. As far as I am aware there has been no system- atic attempt to ascertain the population of Chinese in this city. I think it is estimated at about 3,000 or 4,000.

Q. What means have you used in ascertaining the number employed in this city ?- There has been no means beyond the tax-collector's returns. I had a return made yesterday, which number was 750. This would, or ought to, include all merchants, employees, servants, etc. The great bulk of them cannot be ascertained as they go out like bees and packed as it. were in a box like sardines, so that it is impossible to get proper returns; and a great number are supported by their own countrymen. They go out in the morning in every direction, and it is impossible to know where they go. We have only a money return of 750 out of the total number of Chinese in Victoria. It is a fact, and it seems extremely unsatisfactory, that out of this estimated population of 3,000 to 4,000 only a return of 750 is made as having paid taxes. I wish to repeat no actual effort has been made to obtain the real number of Chinese either in the city or through- out the province.

Q. Have you any system of poor relief in the province ?- A. No.

ROBSON,

Q. Have there been many Chinamen left to private citizens or public Many destitute charity for support ?- A. There have been instances, but not many. I know friends. supported by their that many of the destitute Chinese have to be supported in a miserable way by their friends. There is not a large contingent of Chinese in our hospitals-lighter in proportion than the whites. The Chinese do not believe in treatment by the whites. I do not know of any contagious diseases amongst them; but the Chinese quarters are looked upon with fear and trembling when any contagious disease comes round. The death- Death-rate not greater than rate, answering at random, is, I should say, not larger or smaller than the among the whites. whites-there is no special custodian of such records, except under the municipality. When a Chinaman dies he is buried in the public cemetery, buried by themselves, with their own rites. I suppose the grave-digger keeps a record of their burials, but that is all ; and, as I have said before, he is employed by the municipality. The Chinese, I have heard, are clean in their persons ; but I differ with it, Habits and morals filthy. as I consider their habits are as filthy as their morals, in both eating, drinking, and sleeping. I do not think a Chinaman is to be compared at all with the habits of white people. They sleep in beds not fit for dogs and live in dirty hovels, so how can they be clean at all ? I do not think it is the general opinion that they are at all clean. Domestic servants are obliged to keep themselves in cleanliness or they would be turned out. It is con- tended on one side that the Chinese are a necessity in British Columbia, Chinese prevent as we have not the white people. I contend it is confounding, as the coming in. white labor from Chinese prevent white persons and laborers from coming into the country, as the whites look upon it as slave-labor. I am speaking of general evidence and opinion. The greater portion of these poorer classes are brought into the country by private companies, who pay the greater portion of their earnings to these people and engage for a term of years to work for them. I believe I am correct in saying when several thousands of these Chinamen were thrown out of employment they went into camp without any means of subsistence, and quite a panic was caused amongst the whites as it was thought they would steal and plunder, and I believe these companies gave them just sufficient to keep them alive. Hundreds gathered in what is termed "sick-salmon," that is salmon that has died, .and which is altogether unfit for human food. The difficulty was, however, met by these companies, though quite a panic was created, and instances where protection was asked from the government. I understand that the Wages paid over wages of those Chinamen belonging to these companies are paid over to to companies. the companies, and the proportion due to these men who are brought out is paid over to them. This information I have from the principals of the railway offices. I wish to say that with such a class of labor as this in the country we cannot expect white labor to come in, and I contend that white labor would have come here the same as in other countries had it not been for the Chinese. Mr. Onderdonk has told me he has been obliged to take Chinese labor as there was no white labor here. You cannot get white men and white women to come here and compete with Chinese labor in both the kitchen and the field. I do contend that if the Chinese had been prevented coming in here, the whites would have sought British Columbia as a field of industry. I will admit that there is certain classes of Chinese In some fields of labor which can be procured at cheaper rates than white labor, but we labor Chinese must remember Chinese labor means impoverishing the country, as all sending the money. cheaper: but by their savings go back to China, and they do not contribute in any way to the building up of a country. The extravagant wages asked for by white it. labor is because there is no white labor here.

out of the country they impoverished

5

TUCKFIELD

VICTORIA, B.C., August 22nd, 1884.

Mr. TUCKFIELD, examined by the Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU :

"The Knights of Labor.

Our association (the Knights of Labor) is not registered, but is a secret society, chiefly extended in the United States and Canada. There are 3,200 lodges. One lodge in this city. I do not know how many members here. I think between one and two hundred. It is only a young society here, established about six months ago. I am not president of the association, but am chairman of the committee appointed to wait upon this Commission. Mr. Booth, the president of the association, is present. The reason why the committee was appointed is to give their views of the Chinese question.

Q. You can express your views, but we cannot take them as those of a. legal society. - A. I am ready to offer to the committee the resolutions that have been passed amongst ourselves, as representatives of the laboring classes, to the Commission. This resolution I hand to the chairman of the Commission. The resolutions have in view an expression of our opinion concerning the opportunity of pointing the Commission to the evil of the Chinese, and upon the action of the government on the question-one of them asking, or ordering, them to forward copies of the same to the government and to the Commission appointed.

The Chairman said they could not investigate anything concerning the duties of the government and the Commission, but will take into consider- ation, and accept with pleasure, all information, however irregular it might be, of those that come before the Commission.

[Witness handed to the Commissioners a paper purporting to be a report of the committee of the association, said report being generally to Condition of Chinatown filthy. the following effect, viz .: That the witness, and some of his asso- ciates (Knights of Labor) having visited the Chinese quarters in Victoria, have found the premises occupied by Chinese in a most un- healthy condition ; that vice, including prostitution and gambling, is abundant in those quarters. That some white men and women have been found smoking opium and associating with Chinese gamblers and prosti- tutes; that in one tenement, twelve feet wide by twenty-four feet long, with two stories, forty-three Chinamen were sleeping on the floor, lying side by side, the only window being closed, and the air in the room stifling. Wash-houses have also been visited and are considered as unhealthy and likely to spread diseases. That the Chinese portion of the city stands over a large ravine filled in with filth ; and the cess-pools in other places contribute towards disease, which must break out in the city. We have ascertained that about 4,000 Chinese reside in the city. They are a non-assimilating race. Their vices are most disgusting. They turn their sick out to die in the streets, and their lepers to fill our prisons. They control the labor market in this city. As producers and consumers they are no benefit to the country. Their mode of living, a few cents per- day, and the absence of families among them, will make the white men. White men cannot powerless to compete against them for labor. Our children must seek employment in other countries to make room for a race of cuckoos, who come to our land to purchase their freedom. In fact, the results of our- investigations, brings us to the conclusion that the Chinese are a disgrace- to a civilized community, and we beg that steps may be taken to stop the. influx of Chinese to our shores. ] .

A non-assimilat- ing race.

compete with them

TUCKFIELD

Witness continued : They go so far now, not only to supply the general merchants, but sell · individually to the whites. The schools Children should are educated in a large measure by female teachers, and I consider that if their mothers or be attended, by, children are taught by female teachers the least thing that could be done female white ser- is that children in houses should be attended by their mothers or female vants. servants instead of by Chinese coolies.

Q. Since how long have the Chinese been employed in the different pursuits of labor you have mentioned ?- A. So far as my own idea is con- cerned it is almost since their introduction. They have been here for about ten years and in some cases more. Laundries especially were their first industry.

Q, Are they not now stated to be doing the washing of nearly the Doing the washing whole of the population here ?- A. I believe they are.

of nearly the whole population.

Q Have you heard of any special case of disease attributed to the wearing of linen washed by the Chinese ?- A. About that part I have not heard of anything.

Q. How many persons suffering from leprosy have you counted ?- A. Leprosy. The only case I know of is the one mentioned, during this investigation, by Dr. Helmcken and Mr. Flewin, already heard before the Commission.

Q. The visit you made was in company with a police officer, I under- stand ? A. Yes. I think it was officer Walker.

Q. How many houses did you visit ?- A. About sixty or seventy cabins.

Q. Are the Chinese, according to your personal observation, generally The Chinese pear clean in their persons. ap- .clean in their person, though inhabiting, as you have said, rather filthy premises ?- A. As far as my observation goes the Chinese always appear clean in their persons, though, I must say, I do not know of any washing places where they clean themselves.

Q. Do they appear to suffer the same as you and I would from the Healthy, close quarters in which they live ?- A. The necessities of life make them more or less healthy as they are always moving about, and they avoid diseases.

Q. How many white people did you see during the night smoking Opium-smoking_ opium ?- A. We saw three men lying on a shelf smoking opium, and in another place two white men and one half-breed woman.

Q. Did they appear respectable people ?- A. I do not know the white men. Those seen in the opium dens at first sight seemed what I took to be sailors. The police officer made some remarks about them, and one of them answered that he was in the habit of coming to smoke opium, using it as a medicine when he was suffering from diarrhea.

,

Q. The woman you saw there, was she known to the police officer to be a prostitute ?- A. I do not know who the woman was, she could not have been respectable, of course, and she was in company of two white men. There were two women there with two white men, one was a half-breed and the other a white woman.

JONES

RICHARD JONES, examined by the Hon. Mr. Justice GRAY :

Hardly a drop in 'the bucket, the I have been in the local government service as assessment tax collector. · amount of proper- ty tax paid by Chi- nese. The Chinese merchants pay property-tax in the city. It is hardly a drop. in the bucket, what the Chinese pay, in proportion to the whites. Every Chinaman in the province is supposed to pay $2 as provincial revenue tax. One thousand and forty have paid this in the districts and this city, i. e., including Esquimalt, etc. The number was less last year than the year before. There ought to be over 3,000 pay. I think there must be between 3,500 and 4,000 Chinamen in the city. It has been my duty to Difficult task to collect from Chi- nese. go out to the vegetable gardens, etc., to collect from them. It is one of the most difficult tasks you can undertake to collect from Chinese. When you get them in a tight place you have often to distrain on their property, and after a few days they will come down and pay; but not without. Their clothes appear to be only dirty blankets. [The witness here handed to the Commission a memorandum showing the number of Chinamen who paid provincial revenue tax from January, 1882, also the number of white men who have paid provincial revenue tax, from January, 1884, to July, 31st, 1884 .* ] I have not the returns of the amount of provincial revenue tax paid in other parts of the province. These statements can be had at the treasury department. The Indians do not pay any tax. I have not had a great difficulty in collecting from white people, sometimes they may ask for a little time. As to the whites who pay "The Chinese lend we keep a register. The Chinese lend their receipts, handed to them on their receipts to each other. paying the tax, to each other ; and once I put three in the chain-gang for the offence. They are difficult to recognise as they all dress so much alike and are similar in features. I have asked them why so many come out from China, and have been told a benevolent society does this ; and when a new cargo arrives they mix up in Chinatown, so that it is impossible -Stench. to keep track of them. The stench around the vegetable gardens is sufficient to knock any one down, as they keep the urine in big casks which is collected from their neighbors in town and carted out at night. This afterwards is baled out in tins and put on the vegetables. The laboring 'Work for two bits men work for about two bits a day, coming out here as slaves, and after paying off their indebtedness to the company bringing them out they can then go and do as they please.

. a day.

Mr. BOOTH was then asked if he had anything to add as president of the society which Mr. Tuckfield represented this morning, and, after a few remarks,

The Hon. Mr. CHAPLEAU said he would not have time to hear him at great length, and suggested that he should put his views in writing and send them on to the Commission at Ottawa.

Mr. BOOTH : I shall only think it an honor to do so.

" NOTE. The reporter is mistaken. The witness handed in only the number of China- men who paid provincial revenue tax.

ANSWERS TO PRINTED QUESTIONS.

THE FOLLOWING ARE THE QUESTIONS REFERRED TO IN THE REPORT.

1. What classes of people come here as emigrants from China ? Are they chiefly laborers, mechanics or traders ?

2. When they arrive here, do they usually arrive in good health and fit for work ?

3. Have you any system of public poor relief, and do they often become a burden on that fund, or upon the private charity of white citizens ?

4. Are they industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding, or are they lazy, drunken, extravagant or turbulent ? Please answer this question fully.

5. Do they respect their engagements with white men, and carry out their contracts ?

6. Do they show any disposition to interfere with the prospects of the white population in any way beyond the competition which they offer in the labor market ?

7. When the Chinese first came to this province, did they supply a want then felt, and was their coming encouraged and welcomed ?

8. Up to what period did that feeling continue ?

9. When did the agitation against the Chinese begin, and what class or classes of people began it, and what classes are now carrying it forward ?

10. Is there anything in their habits or mode of living injurious to the public peace, or to the public health ? Please answer this question fully.

11. Has the presence of Chinese contributed to the development of the province ?

12. Is their presence here any longer necessary or desirable ?

13. What would be the effect upon the comfort and prosperity of the people of this province, if they were to go hence voluntarily or other- wise ?

14. Are not a certain number necessary, and if so how many ?

15. What proportion (if any) should Chinese immigration bear to the immigration of white people in order to advance the best interests of the colony and provide for the comfort of the people now here, or those who may come here ?

16. What would be the effect upon immigration into this colony of persons with capital, if the supply of domestic servants depended upon the · number of such coming from Europe or other parts of America ?

17. Is it your opinion that the present Chinese residents should be forced to leave this province, or the further advent of others should be

prevented, or merely that the numbers coming should be regulated in some manner, as to the number and choice of such emigrants ?

18. What manner would you suggest should be adopted to restrict or regulate their coming ?

19. Would a combined effort on the part of the people of this province and its legislature, to encourage white immigration, and discourage the employment of Chinese, effectually furnish a supply of white labor, exclude Chinese immigration, and at the same time develop the natural resources of the colony as speedily and safely as they are now being developed ?

20. Can white people now find remunerative employment here and steady work, and is such renumeration adequate to support and clothe and educate their families and make reasonable provision for old age ?

21. Has not the opening up of the public lands reserved for railway purposes had a material effect on the immigration of settlers to this province ?

22. Has white immigration been retarded by the presence of Chinese immigrants in this province ?

23. What personal observations have you made as to the effect of the Chinese upon the morals of the white people, and are they more injurious than white people of similar or allied habits ?

24. Is the proportion of depraved and immoral people amongst the Chinese here greater than amongst white population in other places similarly situated, where the Chinese are not found ?

25. Do the vicious and depraved flaunt their vice and depravity more openly or more effectually than do white people in similar classes ?

26. What personal knowledge have you of the presence of leprosy amongst them, and have you any personal knowledge of leprosy being communicated from them to the whites, and, if so, how many instances and under what circumstances ?

27. Can you give any statistical or other information, or furnish any facts bearing on the general question now being considered by the Com- mission, which will facilitate its work or make its labors more complete ?

Sir MATTHEW BEGBIE, Chief Justice of British Columbia, returned the following answers :-

1. Chinamen in British Columbia appear to follow any description of industry which may appear useful, i.e., in which they can obtain employ- ment or earn their livelihood. I should say by far the larger number of them trust to the pick and shovel : either agricultural, or road-making, or min- ing. There are many who mine for gold on their own account, working chiefly on the bars of rivers and water-courses, with rockers and flumes. Many are, or were recently, employed at Nanaimo in coal mines, both above and below ground. Many undertake gardening and small farms. Another large class take to domestic service; scarcely any establish-

BEGBIE

ment in the province has any other servants. Another large class take to trade ; they have the whole business of supplying their fellow-country- men, and some firms compete with the most respectable Europeans in general trade. The menial businesses of washing and of splitting and Chinese washer- sawing stove-wood are almost entirely engrossed by Chinamen. I do not men. believe there are many mechanics, properly so-called. I only know of Not many their being employed in two manufactures : shoes and cigars. There are mechanics. few carpenters. They are employed about every building ; but generally as mixers of mortar, hodmen, wheel-barrowmen : not as masons, or brick- layers, or carpenters. Every Chinaman in British Columbia has the air of having worked, and of being ready to work, with his hands, except a few who practice as medical men and the leading commercial men.

2. So far as I have observed, they are invariably ready and anxious to Arrive healthy go to any kind of work immediately on their arrival here; and fit for work so far as health is concerned.

3. I am sorry to say we have no system of public poor relief, or of pub- Chinamen do not lic relief of any kind, except the hospitals and the asylum. Chinamen do burden public Charity. not much trouble the hospitals. I never heard of Chinamen becoming a burden on the private charity of the whites. I have an indistinct remem- brance of having been once asked to contribute to the cost of removing a disabled Chinaman ; I am not sure. Such cases must be extremely rare. Nothing is more common than to be called on to relieve whites by private charity.

4. To answer this question fully is to destroy the force and meaning of Industrious, the answer. Industry, economy, sobriety, and law-abidingness are thrifty, sober, law-abiding. exactly the four prominent qualities of Chinamen as asserted both by their advocates and their adversaries. Lazy, drunken, extravagant, and turbulent : this is, by the voices of their friends and foes, exactly what a Chinaman is not. This is, on the whole, I think, the real cause of their unpopularity. If Chinamen would only be less industrious and economical, if they would but occasionally get drunk, they would no longer be the If they were formidable competitors with the white man which they prove to be in the labor market ; there would be no longer a cry for their suppression. They B. C. would not be liked ; the two races are too dissimilar, and each has too high an opinion of his own deserts. But they would not be hated; in fact they would not be here to excite hatred. The reason why they are here is, because their peculiar qualities command a ready market. If they had not these qualities, nobody would want them. If nobody wanted them, they would not come. But these qualities meet with no competi- tion here ; and the Chinaman sees no person to take his place were he to abdicate it. I have heard an individual Chinaman stigmatized as "lazy ;" but the fact was he conceived himself insulted, and was sulking. Their Their ceaseless never-ending, ceaseless toil is like nothing but an ant-hill. I cannot recall to memory that I ever saw or heard of a Chinaman being drunk. Extra- vagant they certainly are not, though they live well when they can afford it, both inside and out : chicken and silk jacket. And they certainly do sometimes run in debt, both in trade debts and in gambling, which is their chief vice. There is scarcely an epithet so removed from the notion Not turbulent ; of a Chinaman as "turbulent," though of course they may be provoked to given to petty résist violence. They are somewhat given to petty thefts, and so not thefts. invariably law-abiding. But these thefts are rarely, if ever, accompanied by violence or threats against the person. Indeed it may be conjectured

drunken they would not be in

toil like nothing but an ant-hill ..

and fit, and will- ing to work.

72

that they generally steal through want. For, looking to their universal. employment as domestics, their large brotherhoods, necessarily impenetra- bly secret to the whites, and the unguarded condition of our houses, the pilfering by Chinamen servants is really quite inconsiderable. I believe that two of the white servants I have had have pilfered more from me. than any twenty Chinamen in Victoria ever stole from their employers ..

5. Yes ; better than white men do with each other. They are notori- ously excellent tenants, paying rent punctually.

Interfere little, if any, with the prospects of the white population engaged in trade.

6. So far as I see, I do not quite understand how they could, except, perhaps, in commerce. They have some firms, wealthy and busy for British Columbia firms ; but I do not think these compete for European consignments.

Chinese supplied a want, but were never welcomed.

7. Those who stayed in Victoria and the lower country, chiefly engaged in domestic service, washing, etc. These certainly supplied a want then felt ; but I do not think they were ever much encouraged or welcomed, except that they found employment readily on terms satisfactory to them- selves. The greater part took their picks and shovels to the gold mines. I cannot say they were much wanted there ; nor was their coming there, so far as I recollect, much welcomed or encouraged. On the contrary, they were from the first thoroughly unpopular in the mines ; the mining population being very Californian in its prejudices, its likings and dis- likings. Nor do I think that the feeling has much changed, although they now go quite freely to the Cariboo, and have for many years ; also to the Cassiar. They did not go to those districts at first, for obvious reasons ; I think the police could scarcely have guaranteed them.

8 and 9. I do not think that the feeling of the whites against China -- men has much changed; but I do not recollect anything that can be called "agitation " against them until Confederation. The agitation is of the same description as that felt by the hand-loom weavers against the - power-looms ; by the flail-wielders against the threshing-machines in England fifty years ago ; by the Solway fishermen against the stake-nets in the last century ; by the lower orders in many parts of Europe against the Jews ; and by the coal-miners in Pennsylvania against the machine- borers at the present day. That seems to be the impulsive force which brings into action the ever-present dislike between the Indo-Caucasian. and this branch of Mongolians. This dislike, which otherwise might lie . dormant or inert, is certainly mutual ; it is manifested in China, we are- told, more extensively and stringently than here, and without any impulse- there from direct competition for bread. Europeans at Canton or Shang- hai are not safe beyond their allotted cantonments, any more than a China- man would have been on Williams Creek twenty years ago. The Chinaman is in every respect the reverse of an European, except that he is a man. His religion, his notions of honor and rank, his mode of thought, his dress, his amusements, his sense of beauty, his vices, are not to our taste at all, or such as we can take to or even understand ; and his language, spoken or written, appears to us at once incomprehensible and ridiculous. Yet they as evidently despise all our attainments and ways ; and, what is most annoying, they come here and beat us on our own ground in supply- ing our own wants. They are inferior, too, in weight and size of muscle, and yet they work more steadily and with better success on the average than white men.

BEGBIE.

A distinguished political writer of the present day speaking of the Judenhetze in Europe, thus expresses himself :

" What is it that in every age, and in so many and in so different coun- Race-hatred " tries, not only ancient, but to-day, in Russia, Germany, Roumania, causes " this hatred of the Jews ? An intuitive antipathy, jealousy mingled with " contempt. The Roumanian finds himself in company with a large num- " ber of people of alien race, of feelings, traditions and religion quite " different from his-people who do not own the same ties of fatherland " as he, who do not intermarry with him or his kindred, and whose domestic " institutions are unknown and perhaps unintelligible to him. So in " Germany. There can be no doubt that the Judenhetze derived its strength, " not from the historical arguments of Professor Von Treitschke nor from " the Christian arguments of court preacher Stoeker, but from the wide- " spread sense that the Jews were out-bidding the Christian Germans in " the market."

exemplifled in the . case of the Jews.

Evidently such competition must be put down. In the central portions How Chinese of Europe, this is attempted in a barbarous way-by brute force, by fire competition is put down. and bludgeons. But countries of a higher political organization are pro- vided with more tranquil and equally effective methods ; and, with a few regrettable exceptions, these latter methods only, in the main, have been pursued here. Accordingly before the close of the First Parliament after Confederation, Chinamen were deprived of the right of franchise, which they had previously enjoyed. This was on the ostensible ground that all Chinamen were actuated merely by direct money considerations. It is highly probable that they are as accessible to bribery as the ordinary Bribery con- white voter, but I am not aware that any enquiry was made or evidence sidered in relation taken on the point. On the other hand, some years later, it was sworn in Chinese. to whites and evidence before the Kootenay Commission, 1878, that the majority of voters (at that time all whites) in a certain district had received money for their votes at the last previous election. This statement passed without comment or contradiction. No disfranchisement was suggested on this ground. Everything else follows logically. The constituencies are of exclusively white race, with no property qualification. Members of the legislature in a constitutional state are in duty bound to take the views of their consti- tuencies as expressed at the polls ; and to support such measures as please their constituents. This is their ratio existendi, unless they do so, they would at the next election cease to be returned. A constitutional ministry is bound to see their line of duty in the path indicated by the votes of the majority of the house-they are, in fact, a sort of managing committee to carry into effect the wishes of that majority. They hold office on that condition. And what the local house cannot enact of itself, they, and their committee of management, are bound to obtain or attempt by all the means in their power to obtain from the superior legislature.

The same distinguished writer whom I have already quoted on the Judenhetze, observes, in speaking of the rival programmes in the existing presidential campaign in the United States : "The Irish vote or the Irish vote in the . " republican working man cannot be wooed successfully without attacks United States. " on the bloated capitalist, on English tyranny or treachery, or on the -" unfortunate immigrants from China." Mutato nomine. The names of races and states may be changed, but human nature remains the same with Celt, and Slave, and Semite, and Mongolian.

10. I do not think their habits or mode of life are really injurious to the public peace or the public health ; not more than the habits of the

Chinese not injurious to public . peace or public health.

whites. There are several matters alleged against Chinamen : One is the extraordinarily small space into which a cluster of them will retire for rest. Four or five, or even ten or twelve, will be on a raised platform, almost like a litter of puppies. It is said this is dangerous in a sanitary view. I believe it is forbidden in London to lodge people for hire, without a certain number of cubic feet in the room to each inmate. But I have seen in a good-sized house, where there was plenty of cubic space, and where each person might have had a separate bunk, five or six Chinamen, not lodgers but owners, sleeping in a heap as above described. It does not appear to affect their health unfavorably.

It is common to attribute to Chinamen generally, that they are infested with disgusting diseases -- e. g., leprosy. I believe this is pure imagination ; an absolutely unfounded report. When an orator talks of Chinese lepers, it is exactly the same unmeaning abuse as when a Canton periodical holds out to popular indignation the foreign "red devils." There is no leprosy or diabolism in the case ; though of course a Chinaman, like any other man, may be a leper. The orator merely wishes to impress his audience with the belief that 'he strongly objects to Chinamen. But if the orator be in a position to keep a servant, he certainly keeps at his home one or more of these "lepers," who cook all his food, wash all his clothes, his glasses and his plate, waits at his table, kneads all the pastry he eats, and makes all the beds he and his family sleep in. A Chinaman was once pointed out to me who was alleged to be a leper. No doubt he had a very disgusting skin disease ; I did not examine him at all ; on the contrary, I kept as far off as possible. It may have been leprosy, which is not always identical in its manifestations. He seemed to be quite as shocking to his own country- men as to the whites. He was being shipped away when pointed out to me. That was the only case of skin disease I remember to have noticed or heard of among Chinamen. Such diseases, generally the result of vice, or heredi- tary taint, are by no means unknown here among the whites and half- breeds. I have seen many. These certainly were not contracted from Chinamen.

It is alleged against them that they are inordinately given to the use of opium-I do not know whether eaten, or smoked, or both-and that their example is dangerous to the whites. I altogether disbelieve in any wide- spread mischief here from opium. Most nations and tribes in the world, even savages, are given to the use of sedatives or narcotics of some description. The Chinese, and I belive other Asiatic nations, use opium extensively. In whole provinces, each as large as England, the poppy is the chief agricultural crop, all for home use, none being exported. The enor- mous consumption which this implies does not appear to prevent China- men from being the most prolific race, the most indefatigable laborers, and the keenest traders in the world. If any Chinamen here abuse the drug by over-indulgence, they must hide themselves, or at all events they have entirely escaped my observation. If their example persuades any white people to similar over-indulgence, of which I am equally ignorant,

these must be a very degraded class-weaker and more degraded than the Chinaman whose expulsion is demanded. Opium, as generally used here, is probably as harmless as tobacco, which is also extensively used in Brit- ish Columbia by Chinamen. They have manufactories here for their own Neither opium nor consumption ; and they probably consume far more tobacco than opium. Neither opium nor tobacco extend in their evil effects beyond the indi- vidual. They are not nearly so dangerous to the public peace as whiskey. I am very far from thinking, and I wish not to be understood as at all insinuating, that whiskey causes crime, or induces a criminal intention ;

BEGBIE.

on the contrary, it seems reasonable to hold that intoxication often ren- ders a criminal intention impossible, and still more often lessens the criminality of the offence, which, committed deliberately by a sober man, would evince a deeper hue of guilt. But there can be no doubt but that drunkenness is the most frequent occasion of crime; that far more offences are committed by men under the influence of liquor than when in their sober senses. And to the injured party the offence is just as great, and very nearly as great to the community; whether committed under whiskey or not. All the evils arising from opium in British Columbia in a year do not, probably, equal the damage, trouble and expense occasioned to individuals and to the state by whiskey in a single month, or perhaps in some single night, As already observed, I do not remember ever to have seen a drunken Chinaman ; and the argument against Chinamen founded on opium appears to be analagous to the comparison of the mote and the beam.

It is alleged that not only the aggregation of Chinamen in their Chinese as a race dwellings is a source of danger to the public health, but that their habits not uncleanly in their habits. are filthy. This last allegation I take to be mere unfounded abuse, if directed against them as a race. There are of course dirty Chinamen. Many of them are very poor, and are, perhaps, as dirty as poor white people ; but that they are as a race dirty, or believed to be dirty, seems quite incompatible with the fact that they are as a race unanimously invested with a virtual monopoly of the two occupations requiring the highest degree of personal cleanliness, viz., cooking and washing. Any family in British Colombia will, at once, without any enquiry as to his cleanliness, admit the first Chinaman who offers as a cook-where a cook is wanted ; and really it may be said that no washing is given out to people of any other nation. As to danger to the public peace, they are, I think, Not as inclined to less inclined to crimes of personal violence, than men of any other races. violence as other They are occasionally dishonest, but the fact that they have (as being the races. vast majority of domestic servants) more opportunities for pilfering, than all the other inhabitants of British Columbia put together, and that very few Occasionally serious thefts are laid to their charge, seems conclusive on this point. pilfer.

11. Whether the presence of Chinamen is any longer desirable in Part played by British Colombia, is to a certain extent a matter of opinion. But as to the Chinese in de- velopment of past, the undoubted facts are : Ist. That Chinamen are very largely, and country. till within a year, mainly, employed in all the laborious parts of our coal mines ; 2nd. They constitute three-fourths of the working hands about every salmon cannery ; 3rd. They are a very large majority of the laborers employed in gold mining ; 4th. They are the model market gardeners of the province, and produce the greater part of the vegetables grown here; 5th. They have been found to be absolutely indispensable in the construction of the railway ; 6th. They are largely, sometimes exclu- sively, employed in nearly every manufactory or undertaking of any description, not being under the authority of a board or council elected exclusively by white voters.

12. This is again a matter of opinion. I do not see how people would get People could not on here at all without Chinamen. They do, and do well, what white get on without women cannot do, and do what white men will not do. If Chinamen were them. expelled, employers of labor would probably have to leave the province ; and when they were gone, where would the employed be ?

Many would have to leave if China- works would be stopped.

13. I do not know. Probably most people who now employ servants men went-Public would go away. All canneries and many other successful establishments would be closed. The railway works (construction and repairs) would necessarily be suspended. People with any realized property who remained (if any remained) would be very uncomfortable, I should apprehend .. People without any means would probably have very few employers to support them.

A certain (or an uncertain) num- ber of Chinamen necessary to British Columbia.

14. I should say, not a certain number, but an uncertain number, are necessary to be retained ; to be imported, if all those now here should depart. How many depends upon circumstances. The supply would pro- bably regulate itself as does the supply of horses. Would it be advisable. to banish all horses from the province? To do so, would open out many opportunities for white men's labor. Would it be desirable to secure a supply of half a million of horses ? They would probably eat us all up: i. e., devour all our means of subsistence. There are supposed to be in California more than 120,000 Chinamen. It is probable that in that state, as in British Columbia, a good deal more than half the manual labor is performed by Chinamen. It is, perhaps, worth while to refer to the condi- tion of labor in the Californian vineyards and hop-grounds as mentioned quite incidentally in the San Francisco Weekly Bulletin, 10th September, 1884, and consider what would be the effect on the development of our infant agricultural country if half its laborers, and of its powers of supply of laborers, were suddenly cut off. The result might of course he ultimately beneficial ; but it is difficult to resist the opposite conclusion.

" ST. HELENA, September 8, 1884.

" Within a radius of two miles there are at this time no less than 500 China- men engaged in gathering the hop crop. So far as I can judge from a casual examination, the yield will be about equal to that of last year, and the quality of the hops excellent. It is quite an interesting sight to watch the process of picking and drying. For a field of twenty-five or thirty acres about 100 China- men are employed. They pick, two together, into large boxes, which hold 140 to 150 pounds of green hop. The two poles which are set in each hill of hops are pulled down, and the mass of hops laid across the box, which is covered with an apron to prevent the leaves falling in. The Chinamen work by con- tract, and they rush from morning till night, seeming never to tire. As soon as a box is filled a loud yell informs the foreman, who brings a sack, into which the box is emptied, and the Chinamen are given a check. Two Chinamen can pick from two to three boxes in a day, and as they receive $1.50 per box it will be seen that they are earning white men's wages. Last year they only received $1.25, but help at this time is scarce and the China bosses had only to demand the raise and get it. It is understood that they will demand $1:25 a day for grape picking, and no doubt the demand will have to be complied with."

15. This involves a calculation of an almost impossible nature ; quite impossible for me. What are the best interests of the colony ? Who knows what white people may come here ? In what number, or what seeking, or for what qualified ?

16. It is of course impossible to prophesy ; but as far as I can judge of human nature, the first cargo of capitalists, under the supposed conditions, would not stop here long, and would frighten all other cargoes away. A capitalist, with any common sense, wants either to enjoy his money or to employ it ; which are indeed the only two plans by which his capital can be of advantage to his fellow man. But if the supply of service were limited, as mentioned in the question, it seems very clear that he could neither employ nor enjoy his money, and he would betake himself else-

BEGBIE

where. I do not say that the sum of human felicity here, or anywhere, would be diminished by the absence of capitalists ; but there is surely no method so likely to deter them as to limit in any way the supply of the only importable article which they really require. The greatest natural advantages in fisheries, mines, ports, are quite sterile unless operated on by labor, and capital is necessary to support that labor. But capital alone would be quite useless without labor ; and would be little likely either to visit or remain in a province, where it would merely consume away.

It does not seem generally understood by those who work with their Labor and capital. hands, that unless the result of their handiwork, is marketably worth more than the money they receive for wages, their employment must soon stop. 'The lowest limit of wages is the money which will buy the necessaries of life for the laborer. The highest limit is the whole of the augmented value which his labor confers on the material operated on. If the laborer accepts less than the first, he will die of want. If the employer give the whole of the second, he will leave himself nothing to live upon, and will speedily die of want in his turn, unless he more speedily retire from his undertaking and place his capital in the funds : when he will at last get interest. Between these two impassable limits the rate of wages oscillates according to supply and demand. Now the only paying industries here are the canneries and shoe factories, in both of which the labor is almost ·exclusively Chinese. Owing to a very great superiority in the mineral, the coal mines have paid largely, notwithstanding the rates of white miners wages, unequalled elsewhere ; but the coal mines have hitherto largely employed Chinamen also. Few other established industries have accu- mulated any gains.

After all that I have said about Chinamen, I can lay no more claim to Never in twenty- consistency than anybody else in British Columbia. They are generally six years em- ployed a China- man. abused, and yet everybody employs them. I have always asserted their good qualities ; but I have never in twenty-six years had a Chinaman in my house, an expensive whim that nobody else has indulged in. Still, I have had my opportunities of seeing and hearing, for in all that time, I . do not think I ever knew a family that did not employ at least one Chinaman.

17 and 18. See answer to 15.

19. The combination which it is intended to suggest would be, I suppose, A combined effort. that the legislature should forbid such arrivals of Chinamen, and that the promote white immigration white population should " boycott " those remaining here ; or else that the discussed. legislature should decree their expulsion. But this would not suffice. It would in addition be necessary that the employers should raise the rate of wages, sufficiently to induce an equivalent influx of new white labor to replace the expelled or boycotted Mongolians : the present rates, $2 per day, for unskilled labor being barely sufficient to attract or retain the whites already here. It may be doubted whether employers would or could, voluntarily and unaided, adhere to this part of the com- bination. The ordinary class of unskilled labor offered in the market here `(and the same is the experience of other colonies) is very unsatisfactory, and the existing tariff has reached perhaps the utmost limit at which employers can continue to exist. Therefore, lest the "combined effort " should fail, it would be necessary that a minimum rate, say of $5 per day (which would probably suffice to attract additional white labor) should Would take 6,000 be fixed by law. But it would take 6,000 new whites to do the work of whites to do the the expelled Mongolians. In order to supply these with places, it would work of Chinese if expelled.

BEGBIE

be further necessary to enact that each person in the employing class must employ from five to fifty of the new comers, at the improved rates. Only one more ordinance would then be required in order to bring the " com- bined effort " into full effect, viz., to make provision for supplying employ- ers out of the public purse with funds to meet this drain on their resources. It is unnecessary to speculate upon the development thus accruing to the material resources of the colony.

Plenty of employ- ment for labor in

Instance of a successful miner.

20. I never heard of any person, white, black, or yellow, who had labor- British Columbia. to sell that was worth buying, who could not in this province find a ready employer. But in order to get remunerative employment here or anywhere else in the world, a man must be able to do remunerative work. And the misery is, that many men who profess to be willing to turn their hands to anything know nothing to which they can usefully turn their hands. Handicrafts require teaching and practice, and they have never learned. The normal rates of wages are five shillings for Chinamen, and in Victoria eight shillings for white men. Below that rate no white man, even if penniless and hungry, is willing to engage upon any work or service what- ever. Skilled artisans, carpenters, masons, blacksmiths ask from twelve to twenty shillings a day. Board is advertised at many hotels at sixteen shillings a week : so I suppose eight shillings a day is remunerative to the workman within the meaning of this question. A miner was recently pointed out to me at Nanaimo in the employ of the Vancouver Coal Company, an ordinary hewer and sinker, who has been in the employ of the company and its predecessors at the current wages of the day for the last thirty years. He has brought up and educated respectably a large family of sons and daughters, all of whom are most respectably married or self-supporting now. He has had no pecuniary aid whatever but his wages, and I was told that he has been able to lay by as a provision for old age (but he is still at regular work) the sum of between $30,000 and $40,000. This, I imagine, may be taken to be a reasonable provision for old age, within the meaning of the question. He has never drank, nor gambled, nor dressed his wife and daughters in silks and satins ; he has enjoyed good health and freedom from accident. It is undeniable that every miner in Nanaimo, in proportion to his length of service, has had an equal oppor- tunity of providing against old age, and such workmen would always be welcomed by employers. Of course, when a worker is unable to give to his employer the value of his wages, perhaps not the value of his board, no employer can stand that long, as already pointed out in answer 16.

Opening up of public lands ma- terially affected white immigra- tion.

21. I think it has had a very material effect indeed. For instance, since the beginning of the present year, three thousand souls, as I was informed, have been located in one limited district alone, on the south side of Fraser River, the opposite side to the railway. That is including wives and children,

White immigra- tion not retarded by presence of Chinese.

22. I cannot believe that it has ; on the contrary, as the presence of Chinamen has enabled some small capital to be accumulated, they must have augmented the wages fund in the province : i. e., the loose capital seeking to increase itself by the employment of reproductive labor.

Chinamen em- ployed not from preference, but necessity.

I do not believe that any single European in the province would em- ploy a Chinaman about any undertaking if he could procure an European, irrespective of wages, unless, of course, the European demanded wages which precluded all profit on the undertaking. Chinamen are employed not so much because their normal money tariff is lower than the whites-

and yet not much lower ; many Chinamen get $30, and some even $35 and $40, per month-as because they are, as a rule, more sober, steady, docile and industrious. Their language is the great stumbling-block. With very few exceptions, indeed, I never met a Chinaman whom I could understand, beyond the commonest wants, or by whom I could feel any certainty that I was understood, even for an ordinary message. Yet I have often feared that I should be compelled to fall into the universal practice and take Chinese servants into my house-which I have never yet done. I have, indeed, been compelled to employ them indirectly ; for there are things that white people simply refuse to do at all, e.g., wash and hew stove-wood.

I append a published list of railway labor rates for whites. The cor- Railway labor - poration of Victoria employ a good many about the streets ; their tariff rates .. is, I believe, $2 per day ; and the work seems by no means to call for over exertion. This table may also be applied to answer 20 :

ESQUIMALT AND NANAIMO RAILWAY.

CONTRACTOR'S OFFICE, - VICTORIA, Sept. 22, 1884. J.

SCHEDULE OF WAGES FOR WHITE LABOR

ON THE ESQUIMALT AND NANAIMO RAILWAY.

Rock Foreman. $3 00 to $4 00 per day

Earth Foreman ..

2 50 to 3 00

Bridge Foreman.

3 50 to 4 00

Bridge Carpenters.

3 00

Blacksmiths, first-class.

3 50

Drillers.

2 00 to

2 25

Laborers

1 75 to

2 00

Hewers

3 00 ..

Choppers.

1 75 to 2 00

All outside labor, ten hours per day.

All carpenters to furnish their own chest tools.

All employees find themselves bed, board and lodging.

Boarding-houses will be convenient along the line ; board, $4 per week.

It will not be compulsory for employees to board in the company's houses.

Wages will be paid monthly, on the 15th of each month.

GRAHAM & BUSK, Contractors.

OFFICE OF THE CONTRACTORS, CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY, YALE, March 1st, 1884.

NEW SCHEDULE OF WAGES FOR WHITE LABOR ON THE CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY IN BRITISH COLUMBIA ...

Overseers.

$125 per month

Rock Foremen.

$3 00 to $4 00 per day

Earth Foremen.

3 50 to

4 00

Bridge Foremen

3 50

Bridge Carpenters, first-class. do. do. second-class.

3 00

Masons.

2 50 to

3 50

Stonecutters

3 00 to

3 50

Blacksmiths, first-class. do.

second-class.

2 00 to

2 25

Laborers

1 75 to

2 00

Hewers

2 00 to

2 50

66

All outside labor, ten hours per day.

All carpenters to furnish their own chest tools.

All employees to find themselves bed, board and lodging.

Boarding-houses will be convenient along the line ; board, $5 per week.

It will not be compulsory for employees to board in the company's houses.

Wages will be paid monthly, on the 10th of each month.

3 50

77

3 00

Drillers

3 50

Choppers.

2 50 to 3 00

A. ONDERDONK, General Manager

23. I have never personally observed any effect by the Chinese upon the morals of the white people. The latter have occasionally been induced by race- prejudice to indulge in acts of violence ; but it would be too much to say from thence that the Chinaman had corrupted his cowardly assailants. One Chinaman, last year, pleaded guilty to an indictment for indecent assault on two girls of ten or eleven and twelve or thirteen years. I am not sure that he quite understood the effect of his plea, nor am I at all sure that a jury would have convicted a white man on the evidence in the depositions ; but I felt sure he had acted abominably, whether tempter or tempted, though I don't think it was he who had corrupted the childrens' morals in the least. However that is the only case I remember in which it could be alleged that a Chinaman had had any evil effect upon the morals of the whites, a matter upon which they can have but very little influence, either for good or evil. Whites who have evil communications with Chinese must themselves be lamentably depraved beforehand ; and so, I should be disposed to say, immoral Chinese are not only not more injurious, but they are quite innocuous to the morals of the whites, in comparison with white people of similar or allied habits.

24 and 25. I have seen unmistakable prostitutes in the Chinese quarter of Victoria. But I never noticed any indecent words or gestures, nor any- thing comparable to what used to be seen any night in Holborn or the Strand ; and, from all I have seen and heard, I should say that they do not flaunt their vice and depravity at all. Many will say that they are none the better for that, that Naples, and Paris, and Brussels are worse than London, though the latter displays her vice infinitely more openly. Drunken whites, I am sorry to say, are often to be seen in Victoria, by night or by day ; but I do not remember ever to have seen a Chinaman under the influence of liquor. Debauched whites sometimes frequent, I believe, Chinese brothels, as they do Indian brothels. I don't think serious breaches of the peace are proportionately more frequent in Chinese brothels than in those kept by white women. Indian brothels breed the most disturbances ; and they are close to the Chinese quarter. This is my notion, but any constable's opinion is far more valuable.

26. As stated in my answer to enquiry ten, I have never seen or heard of more than one case alleged to be leprosy ; whether that case was leprosy or not, I cannot say. Of course I have no knowledge of that disease having been communicated to any white person in British Columbia, and I never saw or heard anything which would induce me to believe for an instant that there is the slightest foundation for any such insinuation. It is mere unmeaning abuse.

27. I have omitted to state that Chinamen here are generally divided into two tribes, or clans-there may be more, but I have often had my attention drawn to these two-viz .: "Canton " and " Hong Kong." Be- tween these clans there is often much jealousy, and sometimes ill blood. Their dialects are in many respects dissimilar, not only in pronunciation, but to such an extent as to have different names for common things; and they very often do not well understand each other, perhaps not better than a Northumberland farm-laborer would understand one from Essex or Dor- setshire. When a breach of the peace occurs among Chinamen, the cul- prits are generally Canton versus Hong Kong; and when these come into court, either in criminal or civil cases, it is common to allow each side to have an interpreter; as well to watch that the evidence is truly inter- preted as also to explain it to their respective clients.

81

Owing partly to this, and partly also to their unintelligibility to whites, Employing on the and vice versa, it is usual when twenty or thirty hands are engaged, e. g., explained. boss-system at a cannery, not to make the contract with each workman separately, but with some one Chinaman who has learned some English, leaving him to sub-contract with the inen ; and he being the sole medium of communi- cation between them and the owner of the cannery, this arrangement, though unavoidable, necessarily leaves the men a good deal at the mercy of this foreman. Sometimes this takes place on a much larger scale, and -a Chinese merchant here will contract for a whole cargo of Chinamen, fresh from China, whom he engages to provide with employment, and then drafts them out to different employers here, for roads, canneries, etc. All wages are paid to him, and he retains a portion from each workman as his fee. These arrangements, I believe, give rise to the assertion that the whole cargo imported are the slaves of the importer.

Another circumstance has probably induced a similar conclusion. Their Great diversity of laws and customs of marriage and divorce, as in all non-Christian nations, customs as to marriage and are widely different from ours. They are much more simple and arbitrary. divorce. A wife i's usually purchased in a very direct way, without any of the cir- cumlocution which too often veils similar transactions among whites. Divorces are effected by mere expressions of the will. A miner who feels no shame in purchasing the possession of a female for a single night for $20, is scandalized when a Chinaman pays $500 for the possession of a female for six months, or until they disagree. No disgust is felt by Europeans when parents make it a sine qua non on consenting to their daughters' marriage that the husband shall settle ten or twenty thousand dollars upon her ; but it is infamous if a Chinaman purchases the consent of parents or guardians for one thousand dollars. It is evidence that the But look at home. female is a mere slave ; and that opinion is conclusively established when the husband, after the fashion of his people, hands her over to a second husband for a similar amount. The woman is a slave sold into prostitu- tion, but the Chinese themselves look upon it in a different light. There was a case not long ago in court, before myself, on habeas corpus : A Chi- An instance nese girl was contracted to marry a man who had offered the guardians where a Chinese woman would seem to have liked to be bought. five hundred dollars. Another suitor came forward, to whom, at first, it seemed to me, she had no manner of objection, till it turned out that he proposed to take her from her guardians by virtue of the British law of liberty and free choice and without making them any compensation what- ever. From that moment she seemed to have taken the strongest distaste to the man who placed no value upon her, and insisted upon going to him who esteemed her worth, at all events, five hundred dollars more than nothing. I apprehend much of what is said about Chinese slavery and prostitu- tion proceeds from imperfect consideration of the difference between Christian and non-Christian marriage; but I only guess this, I know scarcely anything about it.

Another ground on which I have heard it asserted that slavery is A reason why general among Chinamen here, is rather, I suspect, a proof of their free- dom, or would be so accepted among whites. It is that they demand wages, not such as they would take if left to their own choice, but such as are dictated by certain leaders, who subsist on a percentage of those wages.

I have no doubt but that they have some sort of trades-unions, whose Chinese trades officers and head-centres are supported by subscriptions from the wages unions. received ; themselves deciding both on each man's wages and on his sub- scription. I have no doubt but that compulsion is put on all Chinamen, so that it is very difficult for them to obtain work, if they remain outside this organization. But Messrs. Broadhead, Odger and Arch would indig- nantly deny that their supporters were slaves.

slavery should be inferred not to exist among Chinese laborers.

It is yet further urged against the Chinese, as showing their unfitness to dwell in the land, that they show no respect to our laws, nor to our appointed courts, but refer their differences to private tribunals of their own, whose behests are carried out, irrespective of their conformity with our laws and are never disputed in our courts. As to this I know nothing ; but it seems so probable that it may be assumed to be true. The Chinese, like most other nations with any pretence to civilization, have some methods for referring private disputes to arbitrators chosen by the parties themselves. Such methods are known and practised among all white people ; and very extraordinary some of the results are occasionally found to be. That the awards of Chinese arbitrators are always accepted without demur (if the fact be as alleged) would surely be a strong evidence of the equity of the award, and the good sense of the parties in difference ; for it is utterly untrue that Chinamen ignore our courts, or treat them with any want of respect. It is as well established as anything touching the feelings and dispositions of these people can be, that they place perfect. confidence in the administration of justice by our officials ; and they testify their submission to and acquiescence in the judgments of our courts by every means apparently in their power.

I am very sorry that I can state nothing positive on these last points. I have hitherto had no motive to enquire ; and I should view the results of any enquiries with much distrust. Any questions as to their labor associations, their clans, their marriage laws, their immigration contracts, would, I fear, be in general met with suspicion and answered with reluc- tance. There are very few who could understand the questions ; fewer still, probably, who could answer usefully ; and to appreciate an answer properly requires a preliminary knowledge in the questioner, which is. exactly what is wanting. Add to this a possible affectation of stupidity, a possible affectation of intelligence, perhaps a reluctance to answer pre- cisely, and a willingness that the enquirer should be balked-apart from the possibility of wilful deceit-all this shows how difficult and uncertain such an enquiry would be here. There is a great conflict of opinion as to. the nature and results of trades-unions at home, after every enquiry pos- sible ; how much more difficult would it be to arrive at facts here, where they must necessarily be shrouded behind the impenetrable and irrespon- sible screen of a Chinese interpreter ?

MATTHEW B. BEGBIE.

NANAIMO, B. C., August 9th, 1884.

JOSEPH METCALF, Jr., returned the following answers :-

1. About ninety-five per cent. are laborers, and the other five per cent. are traders.

2. Yes, as far as I know.

3. We have no system of public poor relief ; they do not become a bur- den upon private charity of white citizens.

4. Chinamen are industrious when working for themselves, but lazy when working for others. They are sober, but stupefy themselves with opium. They are too economical, as they hoard all their money up and send it home to China ; and they buy all their food and clothing from

METCALF

China. No ; they break the law more than the white people. They Break the law, will not give evidence against each other ; and you cannot identify them. They will not press the cases against each other.

and will not testify against a Chinaman.

5. When they are compelled to, or when it is to their interest to do so; Keep contracts: never otherwise.

when it is their' interest.

6. Yes, in several ways : by their nasty, filthy opium habits, and in Take the place of getting white women into brothels. They hurt us by taking the places of white labor. white people who would do good to the province, by their example and the interest they would take in politics, religion, social, and other matters that would help to advance the status of the white people. All these helps are wanting in the Chinese. There are about 150 Chinese women prostitutes in the province ; and they interfere with the prospects of the Prostitutes. white people in the province in twenty other ways.

7. They supplied no want, but took the places of white people, who had Ninety-eight per to leave the district. Their coming was discouraged and protested against by ninety-eight per cent. of the people.

cent. of the people against their coming ; the feeling continues.

8. Up to the present time.

9. In 1860, in Victoria, by merchants and the public generally. The Agitation against same classes are carrying it on now.

Chinese carried on by general public since 1860.

10. Yes ; prostitution, leprosy, want of veracity, and filthy habits, and How public is other reasons. injured.

11. No; it has prevented white men with families from coming here, Had not contrbu -- ted to develop- ment of province. But for Chinese there would be and also single families ; in other words, if British Columbia had not here 12,000 Chinese, she would have had some 24,000 more of white population, and this would have made the province a flourishing place, with a happy, 24,000 more whites. contented people, that would have helped the government and developed the resources of the province.

12. No ; the industries can afford to pay for white labor, and have Chinese no longer- reasonable profits. desirable.

13. The people in the province would have steady work, higher wages, Effect of the more comforts, less immorality, with better chances for white settlers to Chinese.

disappearance of come into the country. They prevent white immigration and settlers.

14. No ; we do not want any. The prosperity of the province would No Chinese be much greater without the Chinese. wanted.

15. None at all.

16. Capitalists would come into the province just the same, because they Capital would can invest capital, and employ whites, and have as large profits. Many same whether capitalists themselves admit this fact. Then they could get all the ser- Chinese in the vants they want, and it would be the same to them and a blessing to the people and government.

come in just the:

province or not .-

17. I think all the Chinese that are now in the province should go, and All the Chinese- no more be allowed to come into it, as they are an evil to every one here should go .. except about fifteen or twenty people ; and, ultimately, the Chinese will be an evil to these few as nobody wants them but a few men ; and it is the

duty of the government to make laws for the greatest good for the greatest number. They ought to make laws to drive them out of a country where they are an evil to ninety-nine per cent. of the people. Yet if we could get a restrictive law passed to prevent any more from coming, I think it would give satisfaction to the people ; but nothing else will.

18. The manner should be somewhat similar to the way they have done in the United States with this question.

19. It would develop the resources of the province about the same. The people are doing all they can to discourage Chinese immigration. The provincial government cannot do anything on this question, as all their acts are unconstitutional. No ; Canada must pass laws to rid us of this pest.

20. No; there are many out of work in the different industries on quence of Chinese. account of Chinese being employed at low wages.

21. No.

22. Yes. White people will not care to come to a province where there are from 12,000 to 18,000 Chinese to compete with and live in their midst.

23. They lower the morals of the white people here in connection with prostitution, as they send women from China as prostitutes ; and they are also merchandise. The diseases they bring is sometimes venereal, and sometimes the men bring leprosy. They decoy young men and boys to their dens and ruin them, both physically and morally.

24. Yes; their morals are lowered by coming in contact with such an immoral class of people as the Chinese.

25. Yes, a good deal more in regard to some of their vices ; and more secretly the vices that are against our laws.

26. No. I have no personal knowledge of leprosy being contracted by whites from Chinese.

27. As other gentlemen filling in these forms have sent the statistical information you require, I omit this part of it.

VICTORIA, B.C., September 3rd, 1884.

ROBERT WARD, Commission Merchant, Shipping and Insurance Agent ; agent for contractors, British Columbia sections, Canada Pacific Rail- road ; agent for four salmon canning establishments ; a resident of Victoria, British Columbia, and has been engaged in mercantile pursuits nearly fourteen years, returned the following answers :-

Majority laborers. 1 The majority of emigrants from China consist of laborers, from eighteen to forty years of age.

2. In 1882, my firm had between 5,000 and 6,000 Chinese consigned to them from Hong Kong. These men were under engagement to the con- tractors of the Canadian Pacific Railroad ; and arrived in ten different vessels. Each ship carried one or more surgeons, as required by the

WARD

the Government Regulations in Hong-Kong, and these surgeons each `reported to me favorably on the health of their passengers. Probably not over eight men, out of the number I have given, died at sea. The men were landed on arrival and at once despatched to the interior, to different parts of railroad construction.

3. None, except benevolent societies ; and I have never heard of a Do not burden Chinese resident having received relief from any of such societies. charities.

4. I think the Chinese are industrious, and are always ready to accept Industrious, sober employment. With regard to their sobriety, I have never seen an intoxi- and frugal. cated Chinaman. They are more or less addicted to opium-smoking, which is carried on in their dwellings. They are frugal in their habits, and as a class they are law-abiding.

5. I have never heard of any violations of their contracts with white How they fulfil men, although amongst the Chinese themselves I have known of fraudu- contracts. lent transactions.

6. No.

Do not intefere with prospects of white population.

7 and 8. I was not in British Columbia when the Chinese first arrived here, and am unable, therefore, to answer these questions.

9. About nine or ten years since, to the best of my recollection ; and Agitation com- politicians must be credited with both initiating and continuing the menced ten years ago by politicians.

agitation.

10. The Chinese have a habit of huddling together in very limited Over-crowding quarters, and the surroundings of their habitations are dirty and disgust- and filth. ing. Although their mode of living cannot be said to intefere with the public peace, it is certainly not conducive to public health in towns or cities where they reside. I think, however, most Chinese are cleanly in their persons.

11-16. The presence of Chinese has afforded a source of cheap labor Developed not otherwise procurable, and has, therefore, to a certain extent, assisted country. in the development of the province. I am interested in several large canning establishments on Fraser River, and at this industry (salmon Noother laborer canning) the Chinese are largely employed. This employment is of a very fluctuating character during a fishing season, and the Chinese seem pecu- liarly adapted to it. As far as my experience goes, no other class of laborers could be found ready to accept such employment ; considering its fitful nature during a fishing season. If steady employment could be assured at the industry I speak of, white labor at a reasonable cost would be doubtless preferred. As domestic servants Chinese have proved use- Useful as do- ful, owing to the fact that white servants have not been obtainable in the colony. Several lots of girls brought out from England to fill such places have mostly married shortly after arrival. It would be difficult to say what proportion (if any) Chinese immigration should bear to the immigration of white people, in order to advance the best in- terests of the colony and provide for the comfort of the people now here. This depends upon the amount of cheap white labor likely to be procurable. At the present the colony cannot depend upon a sufficient supply of domestic servants coming from Europe or other parts of America, and until this is forthcoming Chinese domestic help will have to be relied Europe Chinese upon.

fit for the country .-

mestic servants ..

Until a sufficient supply of domes- tics come from

must be relied. on.

If they arrived in very large num- bers regulation would be neces- sary.

17. No, but if it should be found hereafter that they arrive in very large numbers, such numbers should be regulated; although I am of opinion that under any circumstances only unskilled laborers would come here.

18. As already stated this should depend upon whether a sufficient num- ber of white immigrants will be forthcoming to fill the demand for labor. If necessary to restrict Chinese immigration it would perhaps be advisable to regulate the numbers to come here by any one vessel, and this would surely check immigration.

19. I think not. In my opinion the difficulty in procuring a large im- migration of suitable whites, is the heavy expense in reaching this prov- ince, and a sufficient number, therefore, is not obtainable to fill the requirements.

20. Yes ; particularily mechanics.

21. So far it has not had a very material effect on immigration, certainly not to such an extent as might have been expected.

22. I think not, as the bulk of our Chinese population belongs to the unskilled laborers' class, and white laborers can always obtain at least fifty per cent. higher wages than the Chinaman. I might mention that many of those who publicly denounce the Chinese largely avail themselves of their labor.

23. I have not observed that the morals of the whites have been affected by the Chinese. I have no personal knowledge of the fact, although I have frequently heard it asserted that the whites have adopted the Chinese custom of opium-smoking, but the number of these must be very few.

24. I should think not.

25. No ; one scarcely ever sees a Chinese woman on the streets.

26. None whatever.

27. I am of opinion that on completion of railway construction in the province, the immigration of Chinese will fall off considerably. The question generally to my mind is that of capital and labor, and however undesirable they might be as settlers, in comparison with the whites, they have, to a very great extent, been found useful in developing industries, which otherwise would have remained dormant, in the absence of suitable cheap white labor. It is not generally known that the climate of the interior of British Columbia is quite unsuitable to the Chinese, but such is the fact ; the winters are more severe than they can stand, and the rate of mortality among them is very largely in excess of the whites.

ROBERT WARD.

YOUNG

JAMES YOUNG, of Nanaimo, returned the following answers :-

1. So far as my observation goes, chiefly laborers.

Laborers.

2. Generally they are healthy, or seem so.

Healthy.

3. None that I know of ; nor do I know of their becoming a burden upon the charity of whites.

Do not burden charities.

4. They generally work steady when well supervised, or when working Work steady when well super- for themselves, but when working for wages and left alone they are not vised -sober. very pushing, and a job generally lasts with them. So far as I have observ- ed they are sober, though considerable quantities of their own intoxicants are used, such as Chinese brandy, opium, etc. They are not generally Not law-breakers. law breakers, in fact they do not seem to generally understand our laws ; but they seem to be under the control of some superior power of some secret Under the control amongst themselves, which prevents them openly defying our laws, while power. their docile cowardly disposition renders them easily controlled by a show of superior force. Moreover they seem to have a system of laws, and means of enforcing them, outside of and independent of our laws. They do not seem to be improvident, though many of them are inveterate gamblers. I have myself known instances where they have gambled away their month's wages and starved through the next month. But I do not counter to them Not safe to run know of their being very turbulent. However it is not very safe to run when they are strong. counter to them where they are very strong.

5. In general, yes, though in a great many cases fear of the conse- quences prevents them doing otherwise.

Respect their engagements.

6. They are entering into every branch of industry and actually crowd- white people. ing white people out.

7. I was not in the province then.

8. Į cannot say.

9. It began, I learn by the public prints, about the year 1865. Some Agitation against few intelligent men of the middle-class began it ; but at present all classes them began in 1865. are carrying on the agitation, all save a few wealthy employers and their satellites.

10. Assuredly there is. Crime amongst them is very difficult to punish, Difficulty in for the reason that criminals cannot be discovered; while their presence is a constant cause of irritation to the white laborers, and a conflict be- tween the two races is liable to break out at any moment. Then, their habitations are generally wretched hovels, and they are generally crowded into them in such numbers, and live'amongst so much filth and neglect of sanitary arrangements, that there cannot but be danger to the public health. Their quarters would be centres from which contagion would spread all around, and thus diseases not otherwise dangerous might readily become epidemic.

punishing crime.

Bad sanitary condition.

11. Yes. All labor contributes to develop any country, but the Chinese Contributed to carry all the wealth they obtain out of the country, whereas white men country. develop the nearly always invest their earnings in it, and thus further develop it. Moreover, in the gold fields, Chinese hinder the development of the country and prevent it being settled, and in this way : In the first rush of people

Crowding out

to a new gold field, supplies of all sorts are very expensive, consequently the poorer deposits are always passed over ; subsequently, when the country has been opened up, and supplies are cheaper, and the richer deposits become exhausted, the miners would naturally fall back on what had been passed over in the first excitement. But, alas! for their hopes. The Chinese have been there and cleared everything out, consequently there is nothing to fall back upon, and thousands have thus been forced to leave the country. This is the universal experience of every country cursed by their presence. When employed for wages the effect is different though hardly less disastrous. They keep white men out of employment, while any saving in wages goes to the employers. Thus capital gets more than its share of the produce of labor, and acquires undue preponderance, and capital in a few hands is always dangerous.

12. Their presence never was necessary or desirable.

13. Undoubtedly there would be a little inconvenience to some parties. Such is always the effect of altering any settled system, but while many would be put to a little temporary inconvenience by any sudden expulsion of the Chinese, this would soon cease, for the certainty of finding ready employment would induce such an extensive emigration from other countries as would soon set matters right, and bring wages to their former level or lower. Hundreds of people have been forced to leave the province during the past few months, owing to their inability to find employment.

14. I have said none are necessary.

No Chinese should come. Capital would not cease to come if

15. There should be no Chinese allowed to come.

16. I do not see why the absence of Chinese would prevent capitalists Chinese expelled. coming to the country. Chinese are not employed as domestics in the Australian colonies, yet that fact has not prevented an unlimited stream of capital flowing into those colonies. I cannot see why something similar should not happen here. As a matter of fact, capital is always attracted where the highest interest can be got, and that is always in countries where wages are high. But, to prevent any deficiency in the supply of white domestics, I would counsel a certain sum being spent yearly to bring such a class from the eastern provinces or from Britain.

Prevent any more coming and the evil would cure itself.

17. First, it is necessary to prevent any more coming. The evil would then cure itself in time. Of course it would be better if those present could be induced to leave, but I should not strain the laws or deal unjustly in order to do so.

18. To absolutely prohibit their entry would be the simplest ; but quite as effectual a method would be to impose a high protective tariff. If the rate proved too low, raise it.

Reasons why it is necessary to keep the Chinamen out.

19. Such a plan would have a certain effect, because, if the Chinese cannot find work they will not come here. Yet we know from bitter experi- ence that there are many persons who, in their haste to grow rich, care not how they do it, and would employ Chinese labor in preference to white just because it was, or seemed cheaper, and because they could the more easily tyrannize over them. Every one must be placed on the same level, and the laws framed to benefit the majority ; if the minority will not willingly or voluntarily do the right, they must be coerced. It is a cer-

YOUNG

. tainty that some will employ Chinese if they can get them. If this gives them any advantage over other employers, who do not employ Chinese, the inevitable result is that all will be compelled to employ them so as to be able to compete in the market on the same level. As a consequence, white labor will not come here, and the country will not progress in the same manner it should do. Therefore, in the interests of all parties, the laws should be such as to prevent any one obtaining any undue advantage.

limited number of whites can obtain employment.

20. A comparatively limited number can. The majority are placed in a A comparatively very uncertain position, and a great many can only obtain employment irregularly.

21. Certainly.

22. Asssuredly it has. As I said, hundreds have been compelled to leave White immigra- the province from the impossibility of obtaining work. These persons go retarded. tion had been elsewhere, and tell all they meet of their ill-fortune in the province. This certainly prevents others coming. Then intelligent people writing to their friends elsewhere, cannot honestly advise them to come while this incubus remains. Who will be so foolish as to advise any one to come here and enter into competition with Chinese ?

23. My observations on the Chinese question have been almost entirely Lower the morals as to their general bearing on the welfare of the country, and the effect on of the whites. labor, but so far as I have observed they lower the morals of even our most degraded class to a still lower depth. White people have sunk to the lowest depths of degradation when they mixed with the immoral Chinese, and a growing number have so sunk themselves.

24. There are few people similarly situated to the Chinese. I have Chinese more never yet seen so many white people with so few women amongst them ; whites. Reasons depraved than but wherever I have known any considerable number of men deprived of for this. female society for any length of time, the inevitable result has been that they become 'coarser. The intellect is depraved, the whole moral tone is lowered, and men rush into a greater depth of wickedness and vice than would otherwise have been possible. Such is the effect amongst white men, even of the better class, and I judge that the effect is similar amongst the Chinese, only it must be worse amongst them, seeing that the standard of morality with them is immeasurably below ours. From my experience amongst them I know that they have no such ideas of the high importance of preserving the honor and fair fame of their women, such as obtains amongst white people. I have known of one woman being held in common by about a score of Chinamen, and this is not thought disgraceful.

25. Yes. In places where I have been it is not possible for any one to walk through some streets, without being insulted at every step by the more than white solicitations of depraved Chinese. The same thing never occurred to me women. amongst white people of a similar class. They seem to glory in their shame, and seek to advertise their depravity in all possible ways. With white people it is different. The majority shrink from the eyes of the public, and seek to hide themselves from view, ashamed to own their fall. At least, such is the case until the principles instilled into them in youth, and all the innate feelings of modesty peculiar to white people, have been extinguished by a long indulgence in vice, and then white people become more dangerous than Chinese.

Chinese women flaunt their vices .

Only knew of one case of leprosy.

26. I have only known one case of leprosy ; that was a Chinaman, and a sickening sight it was. Of my own knowledge I cannot say whether it is communicated to the whites or not ; but if it be contagious, as the best medical authorities say it is, I don't see how it should not be communi- cated to the whites.

27. On this point nearly all I can state is contained in a communication from the Knights of Labor. I will, however, state here what I know. There were only a few Chinese in the district a few years ago, but their numbers have gone on increasing, and in the present year alarmingly so. True, the whites have also increased ; but for one white man who has come here two Chinamen have come. The following figures, taken from the official records, show the numbers who have paid the provincal revenue tax for four years past :-

In 1881, 226 Chinese. 666 Whites. 807

" 1882, 334

« 1883, 459 66

845 66

" 1884, 708

985

Of course these figures do not show exactly the proportion of the in- crease, but they will guide us. It is known there are at least 1,000 to 1,200 Chinese in the district, half fully being employed in the mines. The numbers are 450 in the Wellington, 150 in the Nanaimo, and twelve or thirteen in East Wellington. The tax is collected at the pay offices of the various collieries, and thus more is collected than otherwise would be from Chinese. Thus it is clear there has been a startling increase of the Chinese. They carry on their own trade, dealing principally at their own stores, thus white traders benefit but little from their presence. From statements made by every trader in the district, with two exceptions, I have learned that the collective amount spent by Chinese at stores kept by white men, only slightly exceeds $1 per head per month. Thus it is is clear that they are only a very trifling advantage to the trading community, and a great drawback to the progress of the district. The work done by the 600 or 700 Chinese in and around the mines could be equally well done by about 350 to 400 white men, while the advantage to the community would be incalculable. At present there is practically no opening for boys in the mines of this district ; very few are employed; Chinamen being almost exclusively employed. Under such conditions a race of practical miners, trained from their childhood to the difficulties and dangers of mining, can hardly ever arise, and there is danger of the calling dropping into the hands of the most ignorant class. Intelligent men, finding themselves blocked at every turn, will eventually leave mining for some other pursuit. In conclusion, I would suggest that immediate action be taken to give effect to the almost universal feeling of the province, that it is absolutely necessary to prevent the further immigration of Chinese.

JAMES YOUNG.

The following letter was received from Mr. R. F. JOHN, M. P. P. :-

SOUTH SAANICH, B.C., August 30th, 1884.

Sir,-In reply to your circular of the 22nd August, asking for informa- tion respecting the Chinese in the constituency I represent, I have to state for the information of the Commission that, from enquiries made by me, the total number of Chinese resident in this (Victoria) district is about

JOHN

200. So far as I can learn there is but one Chinese female in the district. 200 Chinese in the A majority of them are employed in market-gardening, others are engaged Victoria District- but one woman. in chopping cord-wood and in making charcoal ; a good many own teams „and do their own wood-hauling.

Of the above number about twenty are now in possession of leased property. As very important facts relative to the Chinese evil, in British Columbia, have been repeatedly laid before the Dominion Government, and Parliament, and also before the Commission, it is quite unnecessary for me to comment at length upon the Chinese question.

I would, therefore, briefly state that I am a vigorous opponent to any Witness opposed further influx of Chinese into this province or any other portion of the influx of Chinese. to any further Dominion, for the reason that they are a most undesirable class of people, and as we have nothing whatever to gain from their presence. The most important industries are being absorbed by them, and a large number are engaged in gold and coal mining, to the great detriment of people of our ·own nationality.

The manufacture of boots and shoes in this province is almost entirely in the hands of Chinamen. They also manufacture large quantities of cigars, and market-gardening is monopolized entirely by them. It is useless for farmers and others to compete against them in either of the above-named industries, in consequence of their economic mode of living and habits generally.

During the past three years the influx of Chinese has been very large. The employment of Chinese on the Canadian Pacific Railway in this province is a very serious injury to the country. There is no use whatever to encourage large numbers of laborers to British Columbia at the present time, as their places are already occupied by Chinamen. I am pleased to say, as a rule, farmers do not employ Chinamen.

When the Canadian Pacific Railway is completed, and the thousands of Chinese who are now employed on that work are turned adrift, I shudder to think what will be the consequence to the interests of this province. British Columbia has many valuable resources, and should in the course of time become one of the leading provinces in the Dominion ; but if her pro- gressive development is to be left to the Chinese, and her wealth carried to China, then Canada's Pacific province will, in my humble opinion, be ages behind.

In order to alleviate and prevent a further influx of Chinese, the Dominion Govern- Dominion Parliament should pass an Act at its next session, prohibiting an Act. ment should pass the further immigration of Chinese into any of the Canadian provinces, and British Columbia in particular.

And unless an effort is made, and not a feeble effort either, the present distinguished leaders in Canadian politics will live to regret that they did not pay heed to this great question in time.

To N. F. DAVIN, EsQ., Secretary Chinese Commission, Ottawa.

R. F. JOHN, M.P.P.

The following communication was received from Mr. E. Stevenson, M.D., STEVENSON. of Victoria, B. C. :-

VINE STREET, August 16th, 1884.

GENTLEMEN,-In compliance with your published request for informa- tion on what is known as the Chinese question, I beg to submit the following :- Firstly, I have resided uninterruptedly on the Pacific coast

Boots and shoes, cigars, market- gardening in their hands.

Employment of Chinese on rail- way an injury to the country.

for about twenty-two years, excepting nine months in the Hawaiian Islands, and am a member of the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Ontario. I have been engaged all the time in the practice of medicine and surgery. I am familiar with the history of the Chinese in this country and the Pacific states and territories of the United States.

With perhaps a single exception I disagree with the great mass of published statements concerning the Chinese. Indeed I cannot justly characterize most of those statements to be other than nearly devoid of truth. It seems to me that to any unbiased, thoughtful mind, even a glance at the matter should disprove those assertions.

Your honorable Commissioners cannot but have noticed what the Commission, appointed by the United States Congress a few years ago to investigate the subject, observed, viz. : "That nothwithstanding the alleged infamies of the Chinese the Californians and others of high and low degree could not do without them in their homes as domestic ser- vants." This fact led the United States Commission to declare " That the Californians gave the highest testimony to the virtues of the Chinese because indirect and involuntary."

Nor can it have escaped the notice of your honorable. body that even by the testimony of their opponents, the Chinese are a sober and indus- trious people-famous all over the world as the most industrious people on earth. A priori is it believable that a people with these two sterling: characteristics-qualities sadly lacking in many of our race-should be extremely immoral ?

Besides this, we know that in religion they are Budhists and Confucians. And even the acquaintance with those religions, now obtainable in current literature, shows that they inculcate a high morality, extending in the case of the former well into the domain of asceticism. Both religions forbid' the use of intoxicating liquors. [Archdeacon Farrar et al.]

Therefore it would be an eighth wonder of the world if such a people- sober, industrious, and firmly held and influenced by such religious influ- ences, should be "extremely immoral." More than this, it would be rather surprising if they were not superior in morals to a people very many of whom are sorely afflicted with indolence and intemperance. And, after nearly a quarter of a century's observation, I calmly and deliberately affirm that it is so.

Place our white males in the position of domestic servants, doing all the housework, even preparing and assisting the lady of the house and children at the bath, and what would be the result even before the end of one week ? I need not inform you. But, during all these years, with thousands of male Chinese engaged in the capacity of domestic servants,. not a case, but one that I ever heard, of liberties or attempted liberties with white females. Could you think of any surer test of indomitable virtue than that ?

As to spreading venereal diseases, I deny that they at all equal our Indian population, or are as bad as our own race in that respect. During my long experience as a physician on this coast I have treated only one case of venereal disease which claimed to arise from a Chinese source, and even that one was doubtful in its etiology. And, besides, venereal dis- ease-that is, syphilis-cannot be concealed when it becomes constitu- tional, especially by those who do not know of its specific remedies. But they have a remarkably clear skin, and, in my opinion, are very much more free from venereal diseases than the white population.

That a large percentage of the few Chinese women in the country are prostitutes is true, but surely we cannot throw stones in this particular. Verb. sap.

STEVENSON

Current statements in regard to this phase of the question are mere clap- Leprosy.' trap. Having taken testimony in San Francisco, your honorable body are probably aware that up to September, 1882, no case of leprosy had occurred Up to 1882 no case of leprosy among amongst the whites in California, although fifty-two cases had been made the whites in Cali- 'known amongst the Chinese during the ten years preceding. The author- fornia, although fifty-two cases had occurred among the Chinese. ity for this is Dr. J. W. Foy, physician to the leper hospital, San Fran- cisco. Besides, leprosy is far from being so general a disease as consump- tion, and has not been proven contagious. Unlike the latter, consumption is considered contagious, or infectious rather, by eminent men ; and if we exclude the Chinese on this score we must justly exclude people from Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin, Nebraska, Louisiana, Norway and Sweden, and other places, including our own New Brunswick.

The sanitary objections against them, too, are baseless. The Chinese Excrement re- follow their time-honored, and, I may say, only proper method of disposing turned to the soil. of excrement, etc., viz., returning it to the soil. In the great cities of Canton and Shanghai sewers are unknown, and typhoid fever is said by medical authority to be unknown also. And from the Japanese health reports, collated after our fashion, for 1876-77, the mortality was shown to be less than one-third of the mortality in European countries. I have a copy of the report. It is probably the same in China; besides, it is notorious that less sickness prevails amongst them than amongst us. I have witnessed two epidemics of typhoid-one in Sacramento, another Less sickness in Honolulu, in 1879-80-which decimated the white and native popula- than amongst amongst Chinese tions without touching the Chinese in their midst. They are extremely whites. cleanly in their persons, almost universally so; and this with their simple diet of rice, and fish, and tea, with their temperate habits, would make any other result nearly impossible.

Is it likely, gentlemen, that an industrious and sober people would cor- Do not corrupt rupt or debase an intemperate and often indolent people ? Is it possible ? the whites. On the contrary, would you not expect an opposite effect ? And, accord- ingly, we find that the Chinese in the outlying districts-Kootenay, for example, and probably in Victoria are crossing their wall of prohibition, erected around them by Budha and Confucius, and are becoming intem- perate. I have the proof. Does not our Caucassian race corrupt by strong drink wherever it has a foothold ?

Gentlemen, you have heard several witnesses testify unfavorably on Not guilty of this Chinese question, and they have said that they inferred so and so. And, from the fact that so many Chinese males are here and so few females, it has been inferred by Christian (?) people that-well, I hesitate to say it-that sodomy was by them practiced. I stamp it as a damnable slander. The man who so acts bears the mark of Cain not only on his forehead but all over him.

The foregoing I have said regardless of the political issue which you Source of the are here to investigate also. I doubt not you see already the source of agitation. all the anti-Chinese clamor. A man who throws his earnings away for whiskey ; who buys demoralization and debasement, physical, mental and moral ; who often fails to report for duty on Monday morning, cannot easily compete with the Mongolian, who is ever ready, ever sober, ever industrious, ever faithful. Aside from this, however, it is probable that the whites would not be able to compete with the Chinese on account of the much less costly diet of the latter. What you have been told on this point is in the main true.

On the question of exclusion, my views will be anticipated. Loyalty The Caucasian to our Caucasian race (a mere sentiment) and especially to our Canadian against oriental people, require that either restriction or exclusion be adopted. As we sobriety.

unnatural crimes.

must be protected

protect the Indian against our intemperance so we must be protected against oriental sobriety, etc. Caucasian reform cannot be soon expected. You must follow out this idea.

A word on Christianizing them. On the doors of the Chinese temples is written : "No intoxicating liquor must enter here." You will see the point I would make here, besides you are witnesses to the statement made at our last anti-Chinese meeting by Rev. Mr. Harris, of San Francisco, that " It was easier to convert ten of them in China or other 'heathen ' lands." The reason is obvious. They are witnesses of our debasement. through strong drink. Do not shrink at this, gentlemen ; it is true .. Instead of " No wine must enter here being written on our church doors, the great crime produced is dealt out to us in the name of God."

Shall we in self defence exclude them, regardless of who may be the. fittest to survive ? Shall we insist on surviving ? Unchecked, they will surely supersede our people. First in British Columbia then eastward the star of oriental empire will hold its way. If we are first in the arts of war, they and other Asiatics are first in peaceful ways. Industry, sobriety, cleanliness, faithfulness, peaceableness will have the victory. Is our race worth saving ? That is the question.

I have omitted, it occurs to me, to say aught of opium. But, surely gentlemen, no Englishman should raise that question. Witness the " Opium War" of 1842. Moreover the vice exists all over much of the world. We have our morphine eaters besides. During my long experience on the Pacific coast not one case of opium-smoking by a white person has come to my knowledge. Therefore, I stamp all that has been said at Ottawa by our (mis) representatives, in regard to Chinese immorality, as slanders for which the Chinese should see that they are punished.

Many hereabouts, if this is published in Victoria, will howl at me because I do not support their slanders; but I think, gentlemen, that they pay your discernment a very poor compliment when they think you cannot see through their falsehoods, which, instead of tending to the attainment of the end they have in view, will have the opposite effect. But I have greater faith in the truth.

E. STEVENSON, M.D. To the Hon. Mr. J. A. CHAPLEAU, and the Hon. Mr. JUSTICE GRAY, Chinese Commissioners.

VICTORIA, B.C., 15th August, 1884 .. B. M. PEARSE, one of the oldest settlers in the country, and formerly surveyor-general, returned the following answers :-

1. I should say chiefly laborers, with a strong turn for trading, and a great adaptability for mechanical pursuits.

2. I believe they usually arrive in good health and fit for work.

3. We have no organized system of public poor relief, and, happily, very few poor persons. I have never known the Chinese to be a burden on private charity of the white citizens.

4. The Chinese are most industrious, perfectly sober, very economical and as law-abiding as those of a similar class amongst the whites. They same class among are not lazy, drunken, extravagant or turbulent. the whites.

PEARSE

5. I believe they do, speaking generally. They are apt to leave their Domestics. places as domestic servants without giving the customery and legal (?) month's notice.

6. No.

Do not interfere with whites save as labor com- petitors.

7. When the Chinese first came to British Columbia their advent was At first welcomed' hailed by all employers of labor as a great boon. They supplied a want and encouraged. deeply felt by all householders, i.e., cooks and laundrymen. They were found invaluable in the coal mines, in the fisheries when established, and in the saw-mills. Their coming was both encouraged and welcomed, by the ready employment which was given to them.

8. I should say, until quite recently, most people living permanently in Most think now British Columbia, think that we have now rather too much of a good there are too many Chinese. thing in the way of Chinese. This is no doubt due to the construction of the Canadian Pacific Railway.

9. The agitation against the Chinese has been almost coeval with their History and na- arrival. It was begun, and has been carried forward, chiefly by politicians who have sought the suffrages of the laboring man by keeping up the cry of " the Chinese must go."

ture of agitation.

10. Their mode of living is contrary to all civilized teachings in respect Injurious to pub- of cleanliness of their dwellings and sufficiency of pure air, and is thus injurious to the public health though not to the public peace. Their peace. habit of smoking opium is most degrading and physically injurious, espe- cially as indulged in by them in small dens and full to suffocation. In these dens one may see able-bodied and well-dressed white men lying cheek-by-jowl with the Chinamen and all indulging in this pernicious habit.

lic health although not to public

11. The Chinese have contributed very materially to the development Have contributed of the province, in the fisheries, coal mines, lumber mills, and public works, to development of province. and in wholesale boot and cigar factories.

12. If all the Chinese were withdrawn from the province, it would, I The withdrawal believe, paralyze all industries, and cause widespread ruin.

of all Chinese would paralyze industries.

13. The effect upon the prosperity of British Columbia is answered in Withdrawal No. 12. The effect upon the comfort of the people would be indescribable, as domestic comfort. destructive to there are so few white servants to be had.

14. A certain number are necessary, I cannot say how many, perhaps About 3,000 2,000 or 3,000. necessary.

15. The best interest of the province would be served, I think, by Should be restricting very materially all Chinese immigration in future, or for many restricted. years to come.

16. The effect would be, in my opinion, to check completely the immi- If supply of gration of all capitalists, and of all who might seek to make a home here, in virtue of our climatic and other enjoyable conditions, and to drive away every person who could afford to go, and who was possessed of means of liv- the Eastern part ing where servants could be obtained. The fact is that at just about the time of the advent of the Chinaman into this province, it was impossible to get servants at all, and it was only a few persons, chiefly those with small families, who had at that time any servants to do indoor work.

domestic-servants depended on the number coming from Europe or

of the Continent incoming capital would be checked.

17. I think there are at this present time, too many Chinamen here, far more than are requisite for supplying the labor market, but I do not see how they can be sent away against their wills. They will not stay here to starve, and I imagine that the large companies who bring them here and pocket their. earnings will send them away rather than have the burden of their support thrust upon them. Certainly I think it highly necessary that the immigration of Chinese, in future, should be regulated by a strict law.

18. I think a heavy poll-tax levied upon each Chinaman upon landing would act as a restriction upon them, and would add to the revenue, and compensate in some degree for the loss sustained by it in the constant evasion by the Chinese of their legitimate taxes. Another apparently successful way appears to be by regulating the number of Chinese brought by each vessel, according to her tonnage.

19. A combined effort of the legistature and people of this province, and of the House of Commons and people of the Dominion generally, to encourage white emigration from the eastern provinces and from England and other European countries, would develop the natural resources of the province more speedily and effectually, than they are now being developed, and would, without doubt, check at once, and finally stop all Chinese immi- gration. For it must be observed that Chinamen are employed, speaking in general terms, because white labor is not to be had or because, in cer- tain industries, the remuneration asked is too great, or (speaking from personal experience) because white men will drink or absent themselves from their duty. No effort which we, as a province, could make, would have the least effect in promoting immigration, owing to the smallness of our revenue, the extent of the province and consequent calls upon its revenue for roads and other public works, and to our great distance from the centre of emigration referred to above.

20. Speaking generally they can. Wages are high here and the cost of living, exclusive of clothing, moderate. Perhaps no country can show a more well-to-do class than that of our mechanics and laboring men. All steady men save money.

21. The opening up of the lands reserved for railway purposes has induced a great many settlers to come in and take up lands. I have good authority for saying that 1,700 farmers, mostly with families, have settled in New Westminster district since 1st January last. This naturally leads to the reflection, though extraneous to the matter in hand, how much the province has suffered from these railway lands having been locked up for so many years past by the Dominion Government.

22. I think white immigration, to a small degree, may have been retarded by the presence of the Chinese.

23. I do not believe that the Chinese have had any specially deleterious effect upon the morals of the white portion of the population, other than upon those who have indulged in vice with them. They may have encou- raged white men of a certain class, chiefly gamblers, to smoke opium, but I cannot say anything as to this of my own knowledge. It is asserted that Chinese prostitutes encourage lads of tender years in vicious practices for the sake of the gain, however trivial. Judging from the police reports we would be inclined to think that the white prostitutes, who sell wines

PEARSE

and spirits to those with whom they cohabit, do more harm to the morals of the community than do those of a similar class amongst the Chinese, who with all their faults do not indulge in very strong drink.

24. I cannot answer this question, but should be inclined to doubt it.

25. So far as my limited observation goes, I should say they do not. Chinese depravity Broad street proclaims the degradation of its inhabitants as loudly as that than that of not more striking of any street in the Chinese quarter. others.

26. I know nothing whatever about leprosy, or its contagious effects.

27. I have no statistics to offer, and can only remark that I object to Does not want to seeing Chinamen on the land either as owners in fee, or as lessees, for the sce Chinamen settle, wants a plain reason that we want here a white m n's community, with civilized white community. habits and religious aspirations, and not a community of "Heathen Chinee," who can never assimilate with us, or do ought to elevate us, and who can be of no possible value to a state in any capacity other than that of draw- ers of water and hewers of wood.

H. M. PEARSE.

THOMAS E. LADNER, manager of the Wellington Packing Company, Sal- LADNER. mon Cannery, New Westminster, returned the following answers :-

1. Laborers and traders.

2. Always in good health, and fit for work, with few exceptions.

3. None, nor a burden on white citizens.

4. Very industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding.

5. Yes ; very honest in their engagements and contracts.

6. None whatever.

Chinese immi- grants laborers and traders. Good health.

Not a burden on charity.

Industrious and sober.

Keep contracts. Do not interfere with whites.

7. They supplied a great want, and were welcomed by all employers of Supplied a want ·labor. and welcomed.

8. It continues to the present date ; there is work for all. Wanted still.

9. The agitation began and has been carried on by parties that has Political cry. none or very little interest in the country, and used as a political cry to catch support.

10. Nothing injurious to public peace ; but their sanitary condition is Sanitary condition not as good as it should be, except when they are closely looked after. not good.

11. Very much so, particularly in the Lower Fraser, dyking lands, Developed which without them would now be wild. provinee. ..

12. They are necessary to fill a great want in the labor market. Without Necessary to a hem a number of industries could not be carried on.

number of industries.

13. The consequence would be the closing of a number of industries particularly the canning business and reclaiming of lands by dyking.

7

14. A number are necessary, and up to the present date the demand has been equal to the supply.

15. That would depend, to a great extent, on the number of laboring classes that came as immigrants. There arenot enough white laborers now to supply the wants.

16. The effect would be to keep capital from the country, as the price of labor would be out of proportion to the returns derived from investments. made.

17. They should not be forced to leave, by no means ; nor unless the labor market gets more glutted should the supply be curtailed.

18. I could not suggest any manner, because I consider as long as there- is a demand for them they should not be stopped.

19. The cost to come here is so much that legislation will not bring- them nor could white laborers be hadtosupply their places, and for that reason it would stop the development of the country.

20. To a great extent, yes ; but people on this coast are very extra- vagant in their habits and demand very high wages.

21. Yes, a little.

22. No.

23. They have had no bad effect on the morals of the white except on those of depraved habits.

24. No.

25. No ..

26. I know of none.

27. I cannot give you any statistical information in the matter nor can I furnish you any fact, except that if the canneries in British Columbia had to depend on white labor, every one, without any exception, would be closed up and the industry be entirely killed, and all the large amount of money invested be entirely lost to the owners and also a large revenue lost to the government.

THos. E. LADNER.

MAPLE RIDGE, B.C., August, 18th, 1884.

JOHN LAITY, returned the following answers :-

1. Chiefly laborers.

2. Usually appearing in good health.

3. No answer.

Lazy and turbulent. 4. They are lazy and turbulent, only working when compelled to for the want of rice or food to eat.

LAITY

5. They do not, but deceive and cover up any defect if possible.

6, 7 and 8. No answers.

Do not respcet engagements.

9. About two or three years ago. The laboring married man, that has Laboring married a family to support.

men agitate the question.

10. There is the habit of stealing and keeping their surroundings in a Thicvish and filthy condition. filthy.

11. It has, in the past, to a small extent.

12. I think so, until the completion of the Canadian Pacific Railroad. 13 and 14. No answers.

In the past the Chinese have contributed to development of the country. Chinese necessary." until railway completed.

15. I think one per cent., if any, quite sufficient.

16. I think the effect would be good, because domestic. servants would come in in larger numbers when they know their services are desired, and the immigrant would be better satisfied and the province benefited.

17. The further advent of others should be prevented.

18. A heavy or high tax on entering the country.

19. I think the natural resources would be developed more speedily and safely by white immigration.

20. They cannot, to support their families by means of the competition of the Chinese in the labor market.

21. It has a good effect.

22. It has of the laboring class.

23 to 27. No answers.

P. S .--- I desire to say that my experience with the Chinese in this Province advance. country has been limited, but I think that the province and Dominion at better without the large will make greater advancement without the Chinaman, than with Chinese. such large numbers, as are at present scattered over the country gathering every dollar they possibly can to send to traders in China.

JOHN LAITY.

MAPLE RIDGE, B.C., August 18th, 1884.

JOHN TREMBATH, returned the following answers :-

1. Chiefly laborers.

" 2. Usually appearing in good health.

3. No answer.

TREMBATH ..

The answers of this witness with

- the exception of the P.S. are indentical with those of the preceding witness.

4. They are lazy and turbulent, only working when compelled to for the want of rice or food to eat.

No more should be allowed to come. A poll-tax.

Whites cannot support their families by reason of Chinese competition. Opening up of railway lands. .

White immigra- tion retarded.

100

5. They do not, but deceive and cover up any defect if possible.

6, 7 and 8. No answers.

9. About two or three years ago. The laboring married man, that has a family to support.

10. There is the habit of stealing and keeping their surroundings in a filthy condition.

11. It has, in the past, to a small extent.

12. I think so, until the completion of the Canadian Pacific Railroad. 13 and 14. No answers.

15. I think one per cent., if any, quite sufficient.

16. I think the effect would be good, because domestic servants would come in in larger numbers when they know their services are desired, and the immigrant would be better satisfied and the province benefited.

17. The further advent of others should be prevented.

18. A high tax on entering the country.

19. I think the natural resources would be developed more speedily and safely by white immigration.

20. They cannot, to support their families by means of the competition of the Chinese in the labor market.

21. It has a good effect.

22. It has of the laboring class.

23 to 27. No answers.

P. S .- I beg to say the little experience I have had with Chinamen in this country, I do not approve of them in no way, and I do not think any more ought to be allowed to enter the province.

JOHN TREMBATH.

J. W. INNES, naval storekeeper, etc., returned the following answers :-

1. Chiefly laborers.

2. In good health, and fit for work.

3. No system that I am aware of, except the British Columbia Benev- olent Society ; but the Chinese are no burden on public or private charity.

4. They are industrious, sober, economical, and law-abiding.

5. Yes.

6. No.

ESQUIMALT YARD, B.C., August 18th, 1884.

INNES

7. Yes ; by employers of labor.

8. Still continues.

9. About seven years ago, by the white laboring class, so-called, and White laborers politicians ; by the same classes. and politicians agitate.

10. Not that I am aware of ; but in the matter of sanitation they are Sanitary state about as ignorant as the lower orders in England, perhaps more so. bad,

11. Yes.

Developed province.

12. Desirable.

Their presence desirable.

13. There would be an insufficiency of domestics, and capitalists would Without them. forsake the country.

not sufficient domestics.

14. Yes; I cannot say how many.

15. I cannot say.

16. There would be a total absence of comfort and convenience.

17. Merely that the number should be regulated.

18. A poll-tax.

19. Certainly not.

20. Yes, if they choose to work and stick to it.

21. Most decidedly.

22. Only white immigration of a useless description, such as loafers, Good white drunkards, and wanderers on the face of the earth.

23. No effect upon the morals of white people, beyond those of white No effect on white . people of similar inclinations or habits. morals.

24 and 25. Certainly not.

26. No knowledge.

27. Chinese are employed in the naval yard as laborers and otherwise, Why Chinese and have been found to answer remarkably well. White labor would have been have been preferred, if steady and reliable men could have been found, naval yard. employed in but thus far this has not been the case; therefore the Chinese have been acceptable.

J. W. INNES.

Without them total absence of comfort.

Number should be regulated by poll-tax.

White people can get work.

Opening up of public lands stimulated white immigration.

immigration not retarded.

Chinese depravity not more glaring than white.

102

LADNER'S LANDING, B.C., August 19th, 1884.

WM. H. LADNER, J.P., returned the following answers :-

1. Laborers.

2. Yes.

3. No.

4. Very industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding, as prison returns will show.

5. Yes.

6. No.

7. Yes.

8. Very recently.

9. Recently, and by those who came here as adventurers to labor for a short time; think it chiefly confined to those who have no stake in the country, and those employ them as soon as they require labor.

10. Greatest objection, owing to over-crowding in house accommodation.

11. Very much so.

12. Yes.

13. A great deal of reclamation of wild land, and the canning interests would suffer severely.

14. Present number not in excess.

15. No answer.

No other domestic 16. No others but Chinese to be obtained at present, nor since I have servants to be had. been here, i.e., 1858.

17. Do not think there is any more danger from Chinese than from improved machinery as to the effect on the labor market.

18. No answer.

19. Government have offered free grants, and have assisted immigrants, and still they have not arrived to supply the labor market.

20. Yes.

21. So far not opened on mainland, but if done it would do so.

22. No.

23. Chinese of same class compare favorably with those of others.

24. Am not aware of any in the province.

25. No answer.

26. Do not know of any.

LADNER

27. My experience is that the general agitation is from those who are Laborers the dependent on their labor, but as soon as they get a piece of land and want it improved, or become employers themselves, they then are the first to employ the Chinese.

they get a piece of land, to employ Chinese.

WM. H. LADNER.

VICTORIA, B.C., August 23rd, 1884.

W. C. WARD, Manager Bank of British Columbia, returned the following WARD. answers :-

Laborers in good health come.

2. Yes.

3. They appear to rely entirely upon their own countrymen for assistance Do uot burden in sickness and destitution. Occasionally a Chinaman is treated in the white charities. public hospitals, but they seldom apply.

4. A large majority of them are industrious and law-abiding. They gamble among themselves inveterately, and their habit of opium-smoking frequently interferes with the regular performance of their work. They are often sleepy and stupid from the opium-smoking, but I do not remember, in an experience of twenty years among them, to have seen a Chinaman drunk. As they become proficient in skill at any particular Gamblers and kind of labor, they quickly recognize their value to their employers, and opium smokers. often become indolent and independent, in fact spoilt by prosperity. They Sometimes are wasteful in dealing with food, etc., in conducting their duties as cooks in households, and are often pilferers; but are careful and econo- Often pilferers. mical in their own concerns. They never hesitate to lie whenever it suits Wi'l lie. their purpose, and they frequently lie for pure mischief. They form no personal attachments to families or individual employers, but a large proportion of them are faithful workers, and become intelligent and useful .servants.

Industrious and law-abiding.

become spoiled by prosperity.

5. Generally speaking, when any contract of importance is entered into Keep their with white men, the latter are very careful to see that the Chinaman is engagements. pretty firmly bound, so that the contract can be legally enforced. I think the Chinese keep their engagements quite as regularly as white men. Their ·engagements as servants, however, are never regarded with any care, and But leave their they leave employment at a moment's notice, irrespective of any verbal agreements to the contrary. A law to prevent this would be very accept- able to employers.

6. No.

7. Their labor was welcome, in the absence of white immigrants, and Their labor was welcomed till especially in filling the place of domestic servants, and as factory hands. within four years.

8. Till within the past four years.

9. The agitation has been chiefly political, with a view to the laboring Agitation chiefly class vote. It became prominent here soon after the agitation in California political and from laboring class. by Kallock and other demagogues. I think it is mainly led by politicians, though there is a very general feeling that the immigration should now be restricted, if not entirely stopped.

employment at a moment's notice.

agitators, who are

Sanitary condition bad. 10. Nothing opposed to the public peace. Their dwelling places are certainly opposed to public health and cleanliness. Drainage and ventila- tion are neglected, and they herd together in small spaces, very de- trimental to healthfulness ; yet they seem to enjoy as much immunity from sickness as do the whites living under proper care.

11. Yes; in bringing under cultivation considerable quantities of land, in coal and gold mining, by employment in various manufacturing enter- prises, where cheap labor is essential to successful carrying on business, they have assisted materially in the development of the province. What has been done by Chinese labor could not otherwise have been accomplished, as at the higher rates of wages required by whites the operations would have been unremunerative. As domestic servants they have been indis- pensable, and in their absence many people would have left the province for lack of the ordinary comforts of life.

12. Until white immigrants of the necessary qualifications come in sufficient numbers, their presence is not only desirable but necessary.

13. Great domestic discomfort and hardship, and a decided check in the progress of the province as long as the requisite class of white population is deficient.

14. A sufficient number of Chinese is required to perform the duties of " hewers of wood and drawers of water " at rates proportionate to the. remuneration obtainable in other walks of life in the province.

15. I think the proportion of Chinese now in the province is greater- than is desirable, as compared with the present white population.

16. Vide No. 11.

17. I do not think the present Chinese population should be forced to. leave. I would prevent the incoming of others, and would endeavor to encourage European immigration, so as to prevent the necessity for employing Chinese.

18. I think this should be left for the Government to devise.

19. Yes ; I believe this would be the most effectual and satisfactory plan if adopted and carried on persistently and vigorously.

20. Yes ; all who are steady, industrious and sober.

21 and 22. I cannot say.

23. The Chinese mix very little with the whites. My impression is. that they have scarcely any influence upon the morals of the whites.

24. I think certainly not.

25. No ; most certainly not. Their vices and depravity are not- flaunted before society as is the case with the whites.

26. Cases of leprosy here must be very rare. I have never heard of any whites having contracted it.

27. Nothing of special character.

W. C. WARD.

NEW WESTMINSTER, B. C., August 23rd, 1884.

JAMES B. KENNEDY, a native of Ottawa, Ontario, and now a partner in the firm of DeBeck Brothers & Co., lumbermen, answered as follows : -

1. Principally laborers, with a few traders.

2. I think so, generally.

3. None that I know of.

4. Some of them are sober, industrious, economical and law-abiding, but I have found that when working by the day most of them require more watching than the same class of white men. They are nearly all sober, in our sense of the word, but many of them become incapacitated for work through the use of opium. They are frequently off work, when the only excuse that can be got from them is " too muchee sick," and it is impossible for a white man to find out what the matter really is.

5. Not if they are likely to lose anything by it. We had a case of that kind last winter, where one of them threw up a contract although he had signed it in the usual way ; but we found that to compel him to fulfil his bargain might prove impossible on account if it having been made for him , through his agent who was willing to swear to certain things that never existed, etc.

6. Yes, by keeping families out of the country that would come in Keep out white families.

with white laborers.

7 and 8. I was not in the country at that time.

9. I do not know when the agitation began, or who began it, but I All classes

agitating against think nearly all classes are now helping to carry it forward, except a few Chinese. sentimentalists.

10. I think, in the case of any epidemic, their habit of crowding their Sanitary condition sleeping apartments would be dangerous, and the fact that so many of

bad. them are house servants would help to spread disease.

11. In the case of mines and fisheries, yes ; but not in the lumber and agricultural interests.

12. I think neither.

13. It would cause some inconvenience in the matter of house servants, but a better class would soon take their places.

14. No.

15. None.

16. The same as in all other new parts of the continent. We have lum- ber, fish, coal and minerals, and when the demand for these outside is is sufficient capi- sufficient capitalists will come.

17. No ; but I think there are enough now in the country to fill all wants in their line for the next twenty years.

-

106

Cannot bring in white labor while

19. No. As long as the Dominion Government will veto the action of ('hinese are in the our legislature, and the Chinese companies are allowed to send in their province. slaves, we cannot get or keep a supply of white labor.

20. Many do, and many more would if the Chinese were not in the way.

21. I cannot see that the railroad lands have been opened in this dis- trict.

White immigra- tion retarded. Chinese flaunt .their vices.

22. Yes, very much so.

23. I do not think the whites mix much with the Chinese here.

24. Very much more so.

25. Yes.

26. None.

27. My ideas on the whole question have been formed and are entirely governed by what I call a common-sense view of the situation, and not by statistics furnished by any authorities, either here or elsewhere. The. A male immigration. Chinese come here in swarms : nearly all are single men, and none of them will marry here. If any women come with them they are common prosti- tutes. Scores of them will crowd together in one small building that would barely suffice for one ordinary white laborer's family. They become proprietors to a very limited extent, and do very little building in Ninety-nine per cent. raise no families and none proportion to their numbers. Ninety-nine per cent. of them raise no families, and none of them take any part or interest in either municipal, have public spirit. political or educational matters. Unlike those of other nationalities, they do not become assimilated to our customs, dress, manner of living, or even laws any more than they are obliged to by law. Is it possible then that our province can prosper as well with laborers of this class as with the class of white settlers who are now coming into the country in limited numbers, and in many cases bringing families with them, and who would come in much larger numbers if the Chinese did not stand in the way ? This "The white settler latter class will live in houses, not dens ; will send their children to is a family man, with children and . all that makes · civic life possible. school and church ; will take an intelligent part in municipal, political and educational matters ; will become largely proprietors of the soil, and thus be permanent settlers, while their children will grow up to be our future city and county councillors, and in some cases our future legisla- tors, as well as to fill many positions of both public and private import- ance. As an example : look at one of our saw-mills employing other labor than Chinese. In the immediate neighborhood there springs up quite a village, with store, school-house, church and other places of public benefit ; while a cannery with the same capital invested, and employing mostly Chinese, will only show one large barn-like building for their use, and probably one or two houses for the proprietor and overseer. I know that the white laboring class here has in the past been largely composed of single men, who were ready to move off at any time; but that state of affairs is rapidly changing with the opening up of the country. I know that during the present summer many white laborers have had to leave Many white laborers had to leave because too many Chinese are employed. this town and district, because so many Chinamen are employed in our mills and canneries, as well as in the wood-cutting business; and I consider the loss of one permanent settler as greater to the country at large than that of ten who only intend staying long enough to make a little money.

JAMES B. KENNEDY.

SCOTT

NANAIMO, B.C., August 24th, 1884.

ROBERT SCOTT, underground superintendent in Wellington Collieries, Nanaimo District, answered as follows :-

1. They are chiefly laborers.

2. Yes; in good health, and fit for work.

3. Never, to my knowledge, have the Chinese got help from the whites. industrious and

4. They are industrious, sober, economical, and law-abiding.

5. Yes, to the letter.

6. They do not.

7. They did supply a want then felt, and were encouraged and welcomed.

Chinese immi- grants chiefly laborers in good health, who do not burden white charities, are sober, keep their contracts, do not interfere with whites save in labor market, had supplied a want and were welcomed.

8. To September, 1883.

9. It began in September, 1883, by a few leading miners, and is still carried on by the same class.

10. There is not, to my knowledge.

11. They have.

12. Yes; their presence here is desirable.

13. The coal industry would be at a standstill, and many a one would have to go without breakfast.

14. I am not posted as to how many the province would require. At work to be done the Wellington Mines we require about 400.

15. This I cannot answer.

16. They would have to do without help ; therefore it would stop im- migration into this colony of persons with capital.

17. It is not my opinion that the Chinese present should be forced to leave the province.

18. I should suggest according to the amount of labor to be done in the province.

19. It would not as speedily develop the natural resources of the Whites can obtain colony to stop the immigration of Chinese.

20. They can, if they are willing to work.

21. It has.

22. I think not.

23. They are not here.

Have contributed to development of country ; presence still desirable ; necessary to coal industry and for domestic service ; their absence would repel capi- tal ; the amount of should regulate their numbers.

employment ; opening up of railway land had stimulated immi- gration.

SCOTT

Chinese depravity not flaunted.

24. They are not.

25. They do not.

26. I have none.

27. This I cannot answer.

ROBERT SCOTT.

Whites and Indians better than Chinese.

MORESBY. WILLIAM MORESBY, a native of England, now gaoler at New Westminster, and formerly a gold-miner at Cariboo, states that whites and Indians are far better workers than Chinese, and in the mines two white men are considered of equal value with three Chinamen. To the interrogatories he answered as follows :-

Nearly all Chincse immigrants low- est class.

1. The Chinamen who emigrate to this country are almost entirely of the lowest class of laborers. The exceptions are, as a rule, the foremen or " bosses" sent out by the companies in charge of the laborers.

Healthy.

2. They generally arrive in good health and fit for work.

Had seen China- men begging ; some steal to get into gaol.

3. We have no system of poor relief. I have seen Chinamen begging in the streets, and known them to steal openly for the sake of getting into gaol.

Industrious and sober, but

4. Chinamen are industrious. They are sober, in so far as that they are some go on week- never seen drunk on the street ; but I know that they drink heavily in long debauches. their houses, periodically-that is to say, that, now and then, they will absent themselves from work and go on a debauch for a week. They are very economical. They save all they can and send it, or take it home Not law-abiding. with them. They are by no means law-abiding, for they break the law con- tinually in the following manner: They defraud the customs, and evade licenses and taxes by handing the tax-receipts from one to another, and neither the collector nor any one else can tell one from the other. They gamble ; keep opium-dens and houses of ill-fame. The domestic servants Have civil and criminal tribunals of their own. steal all the time. They sell liquor to Indians. They have their own tribunals for the trial of both civil and criminal offences. I know of two or three cases in which a money payment was made to the relatives of an assaulted (and, in one case, nearly murdered) man to suppress their evi- dence, the consequence of which was that when the accused was brought to trial there was no evidence, or insufficient evidence, to establish his Half-breed and Indian women allured into opium guilt. I know of half-breed and Indian women being enticed into opium- dens, and supplied with opium and liquor, and being ravished by any num- dens and violated. ber of the inmates. I have seen young white men, from eighteen to thirty White prostitutes years of age, smoking opium in these dens. I have also seen white prosti- smoke. tutes there. The population consists of about a hundred whites to twenty Chinese. In the penitentiary at this moment there are thirty-one Chinese. and twenty-nine whites. In the gaol there are twenty-one Chinese and five whites. In addition to this it must be remembered that about eighty per cent. of Chinese defaulters escape justice through the impossibility of establishing their identity, they are so much alike. The proportion of white defaulters escaping justice through any cause is about twenty per cent.

31 Chinese in -penitentiary, and 29 whites; in gaol 21 Chinese and 5 whites. Large percentage of Chinese escape justice.

Do not always respect their engagements.

5. They do not always respect their engagements with white men, nor do they carry out their contracts.

MORESBY

6. No; but see how they live ! They are crowded into houses with Overcrowd. sleeping-bunks ranged like shelves round the room, with just room to Sleep in gangs. crawl in. There are so many that they sleep in gangs, some during the day and some at night. The houses are fearfully dirty, most of them crawling with vermin. The urine and excrement are kept in barrels, Urine and exere- which, when full, are emptied on their gardens. Living as they do, China- ment kept in barrels. men can save money working for fifty cents a day, whereas a white man must spend at least $7 per week to live barely decently. Were the China- men forced to attend to ventilation and drainage, and no more were Chinese can allowed to sleep in a room than health and decency permitted, they would undersell white labor because of their unclean habits. have to pay more for ground and house rent, and would so be placed on a more even footing with white laborers.

7. Yes ; at first this was so. There were then no white servants. The At first supplied population was small and their labor was needed; but now they have the supply a want but now crowded into the country so fast that the supply is far in excess of the demand. ·demand, and the inevitable consequence is that the price of labor has come down so low that it is hard for white men to obtain employment.

8. Until the demand was supplied ; since then there has been a revul- sion of feeling.

9. It began in Cariboo in 1864. They began working for low wages, and it was found that prospecting fell off, as the white men could not ob- feeling against tain employment remunerative enough to enable them to save sufficient to go prospecting with. Since then the feeling against them has been gradu- ally increasing all over the province.

Agitation began in 1864 since when

them intensified.

10. They often carry their dying outside the city limits, and leave them Inhumanity. by the side of public roads to die. [See answer to question 4 about opium.] Some time ago the Chinese turned out almost en masse and rescued a Chinese prisoner from an Indian policeman, after seriously assaulting the Obstructing the policeman and wounding him badly on the head. In this case we could law. get no evidence at all beyond that of the constable. Their houses are so Houses so filthy filthy that in case any contagious or infectious disease should break out, as to be a public danger. it would be impossible to check it, and it would undoubtedly spread all over the city and country.

11. The Chinese are only a floating population. They are neither land Retarded deve- nor householders, and contribute little to the revenue. They have, by lopment of province. their presence, interfered with white immigration, and have, therefore, retarded the development of the province.

12 and 13. If the influx of Chinese was stopped, and those who are now Gradual with- here died off or left the country, their place would be filled by whites. Of

drawal of the course, were, they all to leave at once, a stop would be put to all works, but the gradual withdrawal of the greater part of them would be of vast benefit to the country.

14. Until they are replaced by whites, some are necessary ; but ultimate- Until replaced by ly they will be as undesirable here as they are in any other part of the whites, some are necessary. Dominion.

15. See preceding answers.

16. I cannot say. If there were no Chinese servants, plenty of white ones would emigrate from Europe, etc.

greater number here now an advantage.

110

Their coming should be stopped entirely and immediately.

17. Their coming should be stopped entirely, and at once.

18. None should be allowed to arrive, either by land or water.

Prohibition.

19. It would be necessary for the Dominion to prohibit absolutely the coming into this province of Chinese.

White men can find employment in those branches Chinese do not compete. 20. In some branches which are not interfered with by Chinese they can, but where they come into competition with Chinese they cannot. All of labor where the skilled mechanics can, and all assistants to such, where the English language is required; but if it is not necessary to speak English the China- man invariably competes successfully with the white man. For instance, a blacksmith's or carpenter's assistant is a white man, but a bricklayer's is a Chinaman, for he has nothing to do but carry bricks and mortar, and requires little or no talking to.

Chinese more depraved than whites.

23. See No. 4 about opium. There are no whites so bad as bad Chinese-

24. Much greater.

25. No, they do not.

Lepros).

26. Personally, I have known no cases of leprosy.

27. Not more than has already been given in these answers.

WILLIAM MORESBY.

BRYDEN.

Mr. JOHN BRYDEN, general manager of the Wellington Colieries, answered as follows : -

1. The emigrants from China are chiefly laborers. A few mechanics come but they seldom work at their trade.

2. They are usually in good health, and fit for work when they arrive.

3. There is no system of public relief. I have never known a China- pect their engage- man to ask for or obtain relief from white citizens.

4. They are industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding, more so than the same class of white laborers.

5. They respect their engagements with white men, but the white men do not always respect their engagements with the Chinamen, as they sometimes leave the province without paying them.

6. Have never known them to interfere with the white population in any other way than that offered by fair competition in the labor market.

7. When the Chinese first came to this province they supplied a class. of labor that was then hard to get, and their coming was both encouraged and welcomed,

Chinese immi- grants chiefly laborers, in good health ; who do not burden public charities ; and are industrious, sober, economical, la w- abiding, and res-

ments ; do not interfere with white population save in labor- fields and wel- comed when first they came.

21. I am not aware that the railway lands are yet open for settlement_

22. Certainly.

BRYDEN

8. The coming of the Chinese was welcomed until within a few years Were welcomed ago, and is still welcomed by many. until a few. years ago.

9. The agitation against the Chinese began a few years ago, and was Agitation by commenced by political agitators, and is still carried forward by them. political parties ..

10. There is nothing in their habits, so far as I know, that is injurious Not injurious to- to the public peace or to the public health. As a rule, they are cleanly public peace in in person, although their surroundings are often dirty, but not more so health. than others of a similar class.

11. The presence of the Chinese has contributed very much to the de- Developed pro- velopment of the province. vince.

12. Their presence is still necessary for the further development of the Still necessary. country.

13. If the Chinese were withdrawn from the province the effect would drawal would be be serious, as many of the industries now being carried on would be unable serious. to continue in operation, for want of a suitable class of labor.

14. I cannot say what number might be necessary ; much depends upon the demand for labor.

15. I cannot say what proportion Chinese immigration should bear to the immigration of white people, as it will depend upon the class of white people coming to the province.

16. Few domestic servants come from Europe or America to this colony, Capitalists would and persons with capital might hesitate to come if they knew that servants were not to be had.

17. I do not think that the present Chinese residents should be forced to leave the province, or that others should be prevented from coming, unless a suitable class of laborers of some other class can be induced to come.

18. I can offer no suggestion as to restricting or regulating the coming of Chinese.

19. A combined effort of the people and its legislature might furnish a supply of white labor to develop the resources of the colony as speedly as now, but I very much doubt it.

20. White people, if steady and willing to work, can find remunerative employment and work.

21. The opening up of the public lands for settlement has had a material Opening up of effect on the immigration of settlers to the province.

22. I am not aware that the presence of Chinese has retarded the immigration of white people to this province.

Effect of with-

not come if Chinese were not here as domestics.

Doubts if a com-

bring in white labor would de- velop province as speedily as it was being developed.

White people can find employment.

Railway lands has attracted white immigrants.

White immigra- tion not retarded.

23. I do not think that the Chinese has any effect upon the morals of No effect on the white people, and I do not think that they are more injurious than morals of whites. white people of similar habits.

112

24. I cannot say that the proportion of immoral Chinese is any greater than amongst white people similarly situated.

25. I do not think that the depraved flaunt their vices more than do white people of a similar class.

26. I have never known a case of leprosy being communicated from them to the whites.

27. I can give no information, or furnish other facts bearing on the. question now being considered by the Commission.

JOHN BRYDEN.

JOHNSTON. M. JOHNSTON, returned the following answers :-

1. Chiefly laborers.

2. I understand they do.

3. Chinese do not become a burden upon public or private charities.

4. They are industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding.

5. They do, so far as my experience goes.

6. I think not.

7. I believe so.

8. Up to a few years ago, when the agitation against the Chinese began.

9. Some few years ago. The agitation is and has always been political.

10. I believe not.

11. Decidedly so, in my opinion.

12. I think so; but I think restriction and regulation in regard to further immigration necessary.

13. No answer.

14. Chinese appear to be necessary in the present condition of the province, but probably the number now here is sufficient.

15 and 16. No answers.

17. In my opinion, the number coming should be regulated as in Australia.

18. Limit vessels to one Chinese laborer for every one hundred tons register of tonnage.

JOHNSTON.

19. When the Canadian Pacific Railway has been completed, probably so.

20. I think so.

Whites can find employment.

21. I understand so.

22. I think not.

23 to 27. No answers.

MATTHEW T. JOHNSTON, [Merchant, Victoria, B.C.]

W. B. ADAIR, manager of the British American Packing Company, ADAIR. answered as follows :-

1. As far as my experience goes, laborers.

2. They do.

3. No.

4. They are, with but very rare exceptions, sober, economical and law- abiding.

5. So far as my experience goes, yes.

6. They do not.

7. To the best of my knowledge they did and were encouraged.

8. Up to within the past two years.

9. About two years ago ; principally worthless white laborers ; some Agitators agains of all classes.

Chinese princi- pally worthless white laborers.

10. They are apt to cause sickness among themselves by crowding Overcrowd. themselves too closely together in their houses.

11. Vastly, in my opinion. Developed country.

12. I think they are both necessary and desirable.

13. Many of our industries would suffer, especially the salmon industry.

Withdrawal of Chinese would be injurious to indus- tries and to the prospects of capi-

14. I think about the present number in the province, outside of rail- tal coming in. road employees.

15. Can hardly say.

16. I think it would be bad.

17. They should not be forced to leave, in my opinion ; the further The advent of advent of others should be restricted and regulated as to number and character.

others should be' regulated.

18. No answer.

19. It probably would furnish a supply of white labor, but unless it was ful, but unless cheap labor some of our industries would suffer.

A combined effort to bring in white immigration might be success- labor was cheap industries would suffer.

8

Quality and cha- racter of Chinese immigrants.

ADAIR

Whites can find employment.

20. I think they can.

21. No answer.

White immigra- tion not retarded.

22. I think not.

No injurious effect of Chinese on

23. From my observation I have noticed no injurious effect of Chinese white morals. Not upon the morals of the whites.

more depraved than whites.

24 and 25. I think not.

26. I have none ; and never knew of a case in this country.

27. I cannot, except to refer the Commission to the valuable statistics compiled by the late Fish Commissioner, Mr. Anderson.

WM. B. ADAIR.

LORD.

1. Laborers and mechanics.

2. Yes.

3. No answer.

4. Industrious, sober, and economical.

Do not interfere with whites save in the labor market.

5. Yes.

6. No.

Supplied a want at first.

7. Yes.

Feeling favor- able to Chinese continued up to two years ago.

8. To within two years.

9. No answer.

Nothing in their manner of living injurious to public peace or health.

10. None that I know of.

11. No answer.

12. Yes.

13. A great inconvenience.

14. A certain number are necessary, but I am not sufficiently posted to say.

Great inconve- nience if they were removed. No combined effort would bring a suf- ficient supply of white immigra- .tion.

15 and 16. No answers.

17. No.

18. No answer.

19. No.

Chinese immi- grants laborers and mechanics ; healthy.

Industrious and sober, keep contracts.

LORD

20. Yes, if they are sober.

21. No answer.

22. I do not know.

23, 24 and 25. No.

26. None.

27. I cannot.

Whites who are sober can find employment. Not specially injurious to white morals.

Not more do- praved than whites nor do they flaunt their vices more openly.

Mr. E. V. BODWELL, answered as follows :-

1. Chiefly laborers, with a few traders.

2. Yes.

Chinese immi- grants chiefly la- borers with a few traders. Healthy. Do not burden

3. System of public relief : British Columbia Benevolent Society. They public chariites. do not.

4. They are industrious, sober, economical and as law-abiding as white Industrious,sober, people of the same class. They are neither lazy, drunken, extravagant, or law-abiding. turbulent.

5. As far as my knowledge extends they do, as well as whites in similar Keep their circumstances.

6. No.

Do not interfere with whites save in labor market.

Supplied a felt want at first.

8. I cannot say.

9. Do not wish to answer this question.

10. I do not think there is to the public peace. In their personal habits they are quite as cleanly as white people in the same station. As to their habits in their own dwellings, I cannot say.

11. Yes.

12. In the present state of things, yes.

13. They are almost the only domestic servants obtainable. If all were to leave at once I think it would be a public calamity. In time the want If all were to leave so created might be supplied by immigration of white servants and laborers.

Nothing in their personal habits in- jurious to public peace or specially to public health. Have contributed to development of province. Their presence still ne- cessary.

The only domes- tic servants.

a calamity. In time white servants and laborers might come in.

14. No answer.

15. Am not in a position to say.

16. Until some means was adopted to bring in a much greater supply of white labor and a much larger number of domestic servants, persons with capital dependent upon hired domestics would necessarily be prevented of having domes- from settling in the country. tic servants.

Capital would be deterred if capita- lists were not sure

agreements.

7. Cannot say from personal knowledge as I was not then a resident, but I am told they did supply a want then felt.

BODWELL.

Further immigra- tion of Chinese should however be regulated.

17. I do not think present Chinese residents should be forced to leave, but further immigration should be regulated and the numbers admitted be limited.

18. Do not undertake to say what particular course should be taken to effect the desired object.

A, combined effort would not bring in a sufficient amount of white labor.

19. I do not think so.

20. In proportion to the number of permanent settlers in the country,. white people can find employment at fair wages. The labor market might be overstocked as there are comparatively few settlers able to employ many laborers. The wages paid for white labor is about $2 per day on the average, and the cost of living here is about 33} per cent. greater than in Ontario.

Opening of rail- way lands had at- tracted a number of white immi- grants. White immigration not retarded.

21. The promise that these lands would be open for settlement has induced quite a number of people to come to the province this season.

22. I do not think so.

23. I do not think they are.

24. I do not think so.

25. No.

26. None.

27. No.

Speaking generally upon the effect of Chinese labor on the laboring classes, I think its worst feature is that it has a tendency to degrade labor. I look upon idleness as a vice, and all honest labor should be held to be honorable and respectable. The employment of Chinese for the perform- ance of menial offices and manual labor of the harder sort for some reason causes white persons to avoid similar employment, and an application for such service from a white man is met with the reply : "I do not wish to do Chinaman's work." Many persons remain idle rather than face the false sentiment that certain kinds of labor are only fit for Chinamen to perform. That Chinese labor can drive out white labor I think there is no doubt, if it comes in competition, because no matter what price a white man will do a job of work for a Chinaman will undertake it for say 25 per cent. less ; but having driven the white laborer from the field competition ceases as they will not compete in prices with each other,and having no white competition they are not slow to take advantage of their monopoly of labor privileges. So that Chinese labor while it may and probably does drive out or keep out white labor, competition does not cheapen labor to the employer materially.

E. V. BODWELL.

ARMSTRONG. WILLIAM JAMES ARMSTRONG, a native of Peterborough, Ont., now Sheriff of New Westminster, answered as follows :-

1. Laborers, I think. 1 grants, laborers of good health. Taken into hospi-

2. Good health, so far as I know.

-

ARMSTRONG

3. They are taken into our hospitals and cared for as white men, for tals the same as which we receive no remuneration from them.

4. Lazy.

5. Seldom or ever employ them ; do not know.

6 and 7. I think not.

8. No answer.

9. Several years ago ; all classes.

10. Not that I am aware of.

11. I think they have in the fish-curing business.

12. I think not.

13. Comfort not changed ; prosperity good. Effects of European immi- If Chinese with- gration coming.

14. No.

15. None.

16. Capital will bring labor.

17. I would not force them to leave, but I would stop the importation.

18. A law very similar to that of the United States of America.

19. Yes.

20. Yes; more so than any other country in the world.

21. The lands are not opened up for settlers that I am aware of, which is a great detriment to the prosperity of the country.

22. Yes, to a great extent.

23. Very hard to say.

24. Much greater among the females.

25. I do not know that they do.

26. None.

27. I have no statistics at hand ; other information might be obtained if time would admit.

white men. Lazy. Do not interfere with whites save in the field of la- bor. Did not sup- ply a want when first they came to province.

Agitation com- menced several years ago and all classes joined in it. Chinese not injur- ious to public health or peace. Had pushed for- ward the fish- curing business. No longer neces- sary.

drawn no change in comfort ; there would be pros- perity as an effect of European immigration.

Would not force them out but would stop immi- gration.

A law similar to United States Res- triction Act should be passed. A combined effort would bring in white immigra- tion and thus de- velop the country .. Whites can find plenty of employ- ment.

White immigra- tion had been retarded.

More vice among Chinese women than among white, but do not flaunt their misconduct more.

ROBINS

NAINAIMO, B. C., October 1st, 1884.

SAMUEL M. ROBINS, Superintendent of the Vancouver Coal Mining- and Land Company (limited), answered as follows :-

Chinese who go to Nanaimo labo- rers ; a few trad- 1. The Chinese emigrants that come here are chiefly laborers, and a few traders, who supply their own countrymen with food and clothing, but no ers ; no mechanics. mechanics.

Arrive in good health.

2. When they arrive here they are usually in good health and fit for work.

Rarely burden public charities.

3. We have no system of public poor relief, and hitherto the Chinese have rarely become a burden upon the private charity of white citizens.

Industrious, sober, law- abiding.

4. They are industrious, sober, and law-abiding, and so far as I can ascer- tain economical.

Respect their en- gagements.

5. They respect their engagements and carry out their contracts.

Interfere with whites in labor market generally and in farm and garden produce more particu- larly.

6. The only interference with the prospects of the white population that I have observed here, beyond the competition which they offer in the labor market has been in the cultivation of farm and garden produce, in which they are very successful, and which they sell to the white population as well as to their own countrymen.

When ('hinese first came they supplied a want and were wel- comed, but the la-

7. When the Chinese first came to this province they no doubt supplied a want then felt, and their coming was encouraged and welcomed, especially bor population al- I may add by the Vancouver Coal Mining and Land Company (limited) which I represent; but the laboring population were always strongly averse to their introduction. At the time of their coming here my com- pany had been suffering from a strike of the white laborers, and we accepted the Chinese as a weapon with which to settle the dispute. With a little more trouble we might, I think, have obtained Indians to answer our pur- pose equally well.

ways against them. Witness's company used them to head off a strike of white laborers. With a little trouble might have ob- tained Indians to answer their pur- pose just as well. Encouraged by employers up to

8. The encouragement given to the Chinese by employers of labor has the present. Feel- not been withdrawn up to the present time, whilst the anti-Chinese feeling seems to have grown stronger every year.

ing against them ever growing stronger. Agitation com- menced two years ago chiefly by white traders and white laborers.

9. I believe what is called the agitation against the Chinese began about two years ago, and that it has been chiefly fostered by the white trading .classes who have seen large sums paid away in wages to a class who never enter their stores. The white laborers also, who often find it difficult to secure employment for a relative (whom they may have induced to come to the province by descriptions of their own prosperity), whilst they see the. Chinese fully occupied are eager to do all they can to bring about legisla- tion for the regulation of Chinese immigration.

Nothing in habits or mode of living injurious to public peace or health. Over-crowding might affect this last. Public peace might suffer when 10. I am not aware of anything in their habits or mode of living inju -. rious to the public peace or to the public health, excepting it may be their. over-crowding. The public peace might be endangered where large num- bers of white laborers and Chinese are employed in the same works, as they are in our coal mines ; and in some instances we have found it diffi- white and Chinese cult to protect the Chinese from ill-usage.

employed on the same works.

ROBINS

11. The presence of the Chinese has, no doubt, contributed to the Had contributed development of the province.

to development of country.

12. Their presence here is far less necessary than it has been in years Chinese no longer past, white labor being more abundant since the opening of railways has formerly. so necessary as brought the East and West into closer communication.

13. If the Chinese were to leave the province in a body no doubt much No inconvenience would be exper- inconvenience would be caused to every person employing them ; but, if ienced if Chinese they were to leave as gradually as they have come into the province, I do were to leave gra- not think any inconvenience would be experienced. dually.

14. In my opinion it is not necessary to retain Chinese in the province, but their removal should not be sudden.

15. A free immigration of white people of the laboring classes would gration of white enable us to do without the Chinese element altogether.

With a free immi- labor Chinese could be dis- pensed with.

16. I am unable to answer this question.

17 and 18. In my opinion a poll-tax of say $50 to be levied on every A poll-tax of $50 Chinese immigrant, would be the best solution of the difficulty. A lower immigrant. on each Chinese tax I do not think, would be effective.

19. In my opinion a combined effort on the part of the people of this A combined effort province and its legislature to encourage white immigration and discour- sufficient white would bring in age the employment of Chinese effectually would furnish a supply of white immigration. labor, exclude Chinese immigration, and at the same time develop the natural resources of the colony as speedily and safely as they are now being developed.

20. White people can now find remunerative employment. In fact, wages are high enough to attract the best class of white labor. Of nearly 400 white laborers employed by my company, not one earns less than $2 a day.

21. I believe the opening up of the public lands for railrood purposes Opening up of has had a material effect on the immigration of settlers to this province. attracted white

22. Of late, especially, white immigration has been retarded by the Of late white im- presence of Chinese immigrants in this province.

23. So far as my personal observation goes I have not perceived that Presence of Chi -- the presence of the Chinese has had any effect whatever upon the morals nese no effect whatever on mo- rals of whites. of the white people.

24. I do not think the proportion of depraved and immoral people Chinese not more: amongst the Chinese is greater than amongst the white population in other places similarly situated where the Chinese are not found.

25. The vicious and depraved do not flaunt their vice and depravity more openly or more effectually than the white people in similar classes.

26. I cannot answer this question from personal knowlege.

27. The preceding questions appear to cover the whole ground, and I have only one observation to make in addition to the answers above given. I have noticed that where Chinese labor is easily procured, white youths ployment and are

Whites can obtain employment and wages high enough to attract the best class of white labor.

railway lands had immigrants.

migration re- tarded by the pre- sence of Chinese ..

depraved than whites similarly situated and do not flaunt their vices.

Where Chinese la- bor is easily pro- cured young lads cannot find em-

not trained in ha- from fifteen years of age and upwards do not find such ready employment bits of industry. as elsewhere, and consequently are not so well trained in habits of indus- try. The manual (unskilled) labor that their fathers followed is looked upon as only fit for an inferior race, and there is growing up amongst us a class of idlers who will not conduce to the well-being of the state. We employ over 390 white miners and laborers, and about 150 Chinese. The latter earn from $1 to $1.25 per diem.

SAMUEL M. ROBINS.

TINDAL. The following is a declaration by Mr. JOHN TINDAL, of Victoria, on the questions submitted to him : -

VICTORIA, B. C .. September 10th, 1884.

«Chinese miners take no risks but follow in the wake I, John Tindal, came to British Columbia in 1862, and until 1876 I lived mostly on the mainland. A few Chinamen were in the country be- .of the whiteminer. fore I came ; their occupation in early days being mostly in laundries and mining. As miners I never knew them to take any risk as prospectors, but, as jackals, would follow the white man and clean the country of everything they could turn to their benefit.

Bad results of Chi- The bars and benches on Fraser River and its tributaries, which were nese immigration. left on account of the high rate of provisions, would now, with railway communication and cheaper transit, have furnished employment to a large number of white men, giving the farmers a market and the government a revenue. But by the Chinese system those are now left a barren waste, and the treasures they once contained are safe in China.

At one time I felt disgusted to hear men speak so hard against the Chinese. I therefore tried to cultivate their acquaintance as much as possible to find out for myself, and had to come to the conclusion that they were monsters. As to morals, they have none. The honesty of the whites they look on as simplicity, and their virtue as imbecility. The Chinese have no respect for women. In fact they seem to think more of a prostitute than they do of a virtuous woman, the former coming nearer their own ideas. At dissimulation they are masters. On their first arrival here they are provided with books got up in admirable form to teach them English, which they can pronounce pretty well from their own characters. All their energies are exerted to gain a knowledge of our language, and after they have gained it they are equally careful not to let it be known. I have never known one who would explain a single word of Chinese to a white man. As to their habits of life, they are filthy in the extreme in their surrondings, the soil being saturated with filth for some distance around their dwellings; but they seem to keep them- selves clean and comfortable in their clothing.

As to disease, I have been told by some that venereal was common and sometimes very serious amongst them ; likewise that some very feeble- looking Chinamen I have seen sitting by the roadside were turned out by their countrymen and not allowed to come near them, that they were suffering from a dangerous and very infectious complaint; that if a person even sat on a chair they had occupied the disease would be transmitted ; but on asking whether it was what we called leprosy, I got the usual "no sabee," as the moment they see a person wants information they are determined not to give it.

TINDAL

As laborers they will do as much as white men at some kinds of work. I have employed them myself, but found they would not work for me as pert thieves. they did for themselves or their Chinese masters; also that they were clever and inveterate thieves. They do not come here as Europeans do, to make a home for themselves, but for the express purpose of robbing the place of so much money, $1,000 being the average amount that differ- ent ones have told me they desired. When they do obtain the sum desired Do not come to they leave for China, unless they see a chance to make more easily with stay. no danger of loss. They are not particular as to the means of getting the amount; if they can steal it so much the better, and more honor if not caught.

It is quite evident that some system of serfdom does exist, but in what Some system of form it is impossible to say, as the poorer classes seem both unwilling and serfdom exists. afraid to speak on the subject. It is a well-known fact that their women are sold all over the country as prostitutes. Notwithstanding the great influence that the leaders have over the masses, no attempt is ever made to liberate a woman sold into the markets of shame. I have been told by men from Peru that they make no secret of slavery there.

They and our race can never assimilate, for they seem to despise us even more than we do them; and our religion, they say, is the greatest folly on earth. In fact they think they ought to cheat, and rob, and degrade us as far as lies in their power.

Cannot assimilate.

JOHN TINDAL.

MICHAEL HANEY, of Yale, a native of Ireland, general superintendent HANEY. of the Canadian Pacific Railway in British Columbia, answered as follows :-

1. Laborers chiefly.

2. Yes.

3. No ; Chinamen provide relief.

Chinese immi- grants chiefly la- borers; healthy ; scek no white charity ; indus- trious, sober, law- abiding ; respect engagements ; do not interfere save

4. Industrious, sober. Very economical and law-abiding with very in labor market. few exceptions.

5. They do.

6. No.

7. Was not here ; but at present large works could not be carried on without them, without entailing large expense.

Large works could not be carried on at present with- out them.

8. Have not heard but little opposition to Chinamen except by a few.

9. I do not know ; generally the laboring classes.

10. No more so than among all laboring classes ; if anything the China- men, as a whole, are the cleanest.

11. It certainly has.

12. While railways are being built and operated the Chinaman is necessary, and as farmers and gardners they equal the whites.

Good laborers at some work. Ex-

Nothing in their habits any more than among other laboring classes hostile to public health and peace ; developed coun- while railways are being built; with- out them no ser-

122

13. Servants could not be had ; public works stopped ; what little white- labor left would be held at high figures.

14. For railway purposes alone 7,000.

15. I do not think an equal number would be injurious.

16. Very high wages,

17. With the present demand for labor I do not consider any restrictions high. No restric- necessary.

18. No answer.

19. I do not think so.

20. Yes.

21. No answer.

22. Not to my knowledge.

23. I do not consider them so.

24. Not so great. 25. No.

26. Have never seen a case.

27. None, except embraced in above answers, and that large works could not at present be carried on without them.

FORKS QUESNELLE, September 18th, 1884.

STEPHENSON. W. STEPHENSON, a resident for twenty-one years in the mining section of the District of Cariboo, returned the following answers :-

1. Chiefly laborers ; very few mechanics or traders.

2. Always in good health and fit for work.

3. No regular system of poor relief ; but they seldom ever become a. burden upon the public, except in cases of insanity. When one of them becomes insane they will at once pass them over to be taken care of.

4. As a class they are industrious, sober, and economical. They are not lazy, drunken, extravagant, or turbulent ; they do not openly violate the laws, but they will evade them in every possible way without bringing themselves into actual contact with the law. They are inveterate gamblers. -men, women, and children.

5. Very few of them respect their engagements or carry out their con-

STEPHENSON

tracts, simply because they have neither principle nor honesty in their ments. 95 per composition. Ninety-five per cent. of the Chinese are naturally liars and thieves. cent. liars and thieves; and amongst themselves it is no disgrace to lie and steal. If caught and punished, when their term of punishment expires they are in no wise degraded in their own or their fellow-countrymen's estimation.

6. Yes ; the trading firms do a good share of the business of Cariboo In Cariboo inter- district.

fere with the busi- ness of white traders.

7. The Chinese got into the province before me, so I cannot answer the question.

8. I do not know.

9. There has never been any agitation against the Chinese in Cariboo against the Chi- district.

10. As at present there is not; but were they here in greater numbers they certainly would be injurious to the public health, as they are unques- tionably a filthy race of people.

If they were in greater numbers in Cariboo would be injúrious to public health.

11. No; the development of the province is no object to the Chinese. Have not contri- They come here purely and simply to make money and take it back to ment of province. buted to develop- China.

12. I cannot say.

13. I could not say what would be the effect upon the province; but in If Chinese left Cariboo district we would be short on revenue if the Chinese got up and Cariboo would be

short of revenue left.

14 to 16. I cannot answer.

17. My opinion is the present Chinese residents should not be forced to immigration

Further Chinese leave this province; but the further advent of others should be prevented, should be pre- as there is more than enough of the kind in the province. vented.

18. This I consider to be a matter for our legislature to determine.

19. No combined effort on the part of the people of this province and its legislature to encourage white labor or discourage Chinese labor would exclude Chinese immigration. There is only one way: when it is decided we have enough, shut the door; and it will have to be closed tight or John will find a crack open somewhere.

20. For Cariboo district, no; for other parts of the province I should also say no to all points in the question.

21. I cannot say.

22. I think not.

23. I do not think they are more injurious than white people of similar or allied habits.

24. Yes; the proportion is greater.

25. I cannot say they do.

Only one way to keep out Chinese immigration : to close the door tight

Whites cannot find remunerative employment.

White immigra- tion not retarded, Immoral Chinese not more injurious than immoral whites.

A larger percent- age immoral. Do . not flaunt their vices.

No agitation

nese in Cariboo district.

STEPHENSON

Leprosy. 26. I cannot be sure of a case of leprosy amongst them, nor have I ever known of leprosy being communicated from them to the whites.

27. Owing to the isolated position of this part of the province, I cannot give any information or facts, statistical or otherwise, further than is given in answer to these questions, except what the Commission has heard time and again. It is a fact that they sell and trade their females, just as we would any domestic animal.

W. STEPHENSON.

Reverend PHILIP DWYER, A.M., of Victoria, B. C., formerly canon of Killaloe Cathedral, Ireland, returned the following answers :-

1. Young men and single, being slaves imported on speculation. They chiefly come from the over-populated maritime districts of China. They are mostly laborers, a few are artisans ; of traders there are very few of them indeed.

2. I have seen some of them coming on shore with their skins looking muddier than usual, and about as fit for labor as ever they are likely to become on the same innutritious keep they are used to. They have very small parcels of clothing, etc.

3. There is no public poor relief as yet established by law in British Columbia, but if these folks are put on shore here in continuation, irres- pective of the demand for them and of the depression of white labor which they must cause, then there must be poor rates. At present the importers of the Chinese slaves provide for them, as they would not like to lose a hand no more than a farmer his ox.

4. (a) " Industrious or idle?" In their own way they are the former, but when possible they will shirk their work.

(b) "Sober or drunken?" If this refers to the use or non-use of alcoholic stimulants, they cannot afford these at first, but after a while and when free and better off, they do use these stimulants, yet then they do not drink abroad. If to soporifics, they all use opium, and many to excess, as they show.

(c) " Economical or extravagant?" They spend but little and this all in the way of exclusive dealing, but at gambling they risk large sums and are passionately fond of games of risk.

(d) Law-abiding or turbulent?" I do not take these terms as exact con- tradictories ; but I take the fact to be this : First, they are and yet are not law-abiding, because they have their own laws, rules and judicatories, and are only accidentally law-abiding. Second, although not breaking the law by acts of violence, they evade it, as for example by systemati- cally evading the payment of their taxes and by gross perjury.

5. They do, because they must, and as well as under-fed slaves are able to do.

6. Not at present and here; but in the United States they go beyond fair " competition," and seek, by predominant and exclusive possession of certain trades, to control the labor market. Their future conduct here

DWYER.

will depend upon whether opportunities be afforded them for such a pro- cedure or else cut off.

7. In the United States, they came first to work on the Central or Union Welcomed at first .. Pacific Railroads. Also they were put on in force upon the Canadian Pacific line to work against time, and to the loss of the contractors who would have preferred white labor. Here, in respect of other kinds of labor, they were welcomed in lack of better being available through expense and distance.

8. That feeling continued until the general sense of all intelligent How agitation people became awakened to the dangers arising from the Chinese being against them arose. imported, not in proportion to the needs of the local market and the equities measurable to other laborers, and the future well-being of the province, but upon conditions extraneous and adverse.

9. In my humble judgment, the term "agitation " is hardly the term Movementagainst Chinese not so which strictly applies to designate the feeling and action in this case. much an agitator's. "Self-defence " would explain the principle more accurately; and this being the spontaneous and natural outcome of the universal persuasion of all classes, found an expression first in private, then in the press, and finally in the Provincial Parliament.

movement as one- of self-defence.

10. The present numbers and interests of the Chinese preclude any Dangerous to the hostile action on their part against the public peace. Their houses, and public health. yards, and streets, and drains (such as the latter are in Victoria), are offensive alike to the senses of sight and smell ; and should any epidemic arise, the combination of Chinese, living on low diet and congested amidst reeking offal and fecal matter, must breed if not spread plague or pestilence. Why they do not suffer already from zymotic disease does seem an anomaly. They have all the elements of it rife in their midst ; but sooner or later "Chinatown " must become a mine of destructive influences, operative over a wide radius, against the life and health of the city of Victoria. And so, too, wherever these people congregate. New Westminster looks very unsanitary, also, in the Chinese quarters. I think that an undue stress was laid on the question of leprosy. It is against the interests of purchasers and importers alike, to lay out money and be at a risk on "a chattel " likely to prove a loss ; con- sequently the slave-owners first examine the article carefully, just as purchasers get a " Vet " to examine a horse, or exporters use tests to guard against pleuro-pneumonia, or " foot and mouth," in a drove of beasts. The danger from leprosy must arise from its being in-bred or undeveloped in the article that is imported.

11. It has and it has not. It has because something is better than To what extent nothing. It has not because the Chinese are mere "birds of passage," who use mainly food and clothing imported from China, or prepared by Chinese. Nay, all their earnings go first to their owners for redemption, then they remit them to China when redeemed, cooperate to their own and not the interests and trade of the province in general, and stand in the way of the introduction of better workers who would identify themselves with the interests of the province, by settling, thriving, trading and in- vesting, not in the exclusive fashion of the Chinese.

12. This will depend on conditions possible, even probable, though not Stand in the way yet considered or developed. But at the present they stand in the way grants. of white immi-

they have contri- buted to develop country.

of white immigrants of certain trades, i. e., shoe-makers, domestic servants, washers, tailors, carpenters, cigar-makers, etc. Also, they cheapen labor, and may do so further to an extent exclusive of further immigrants of a most desirable kind.

13. Their immediate expulsion en masse is one thing for possible con- sideration. But after all, if the Canadian Pacific Railroad was opened, their presence would not be at all necessary in the degree at present inevitable ; nay, even they might become, even without a further increase of their numbers, rather undersirable if found restrictive upon the introduction of white and other laborers.

Conditions which determine how many desirable.

14 and 15. The certain number of Chinese necessary here, cannot be laid down in a numerical statement, even approximate. It depends alto- gether upon economic conditions, of which two at least may be stated. First, that they be sufficient in number to keep labor from reaching a deterrent maximum. Second, that their number may not run labor down to a minimum, so as to exclude white immigrants-thereby giving to the Chinese a command over the labor market equal to a monopoly, to be backed up afterwards by the force of labor leagues and trade combinations ; thereby reducing the Island to the same conditions which the Ameri- cans repelled before their overtaking their western cities and countries with injurious effects.

If Chinese ex- cluded there would be a tem- porary disadvant- age and great ultimate gain.

16. A temporary disadvantage and loss to be compensated for plentifully, by great gains upon the opening of the Canadian Pacific Railroad.

17. " Forced to leaved the province " in a body might become a necessity, whether with or without any prior restriction put upon their numbers. Also, this eventuality might be further regarded as not precluding further immediate precautionary measures, in the nature of penal clauses under certain very probable conditions, and to be prepared and provided before- hand in order to avert dangers impending from present Chinese courses of action.

Suggestion for le- gislation.

18. Stringent regulations of a legislative nature, framed in the light of the evasions experienced by the United States. Also further legislative provisions of a deterrent character directed against the whole body of the Chinese at present in British Columbia, so as to make them know the responsibilities they incur, if persisting in certain courses, which may prove injurious to the interests of the colony,

19. This question assumes too little and would prove too much. Thus, first, the combined effort must be prepared for, in order to be at all effectual, by a restriction legally imposed on importation of Chinese labor. And then, secondly, the combined effort should not be made so as to have the intention or effect of excluding the Chinese altogether as a way to the inclusion of the white or other laborers. The fact is that "both are best," up to a certain degree. But to have either all white labor or all Chinese, would be injurious and absurd. The natural resources of the colony will thus be found likely to find the earliest and most advantageous develop- ment by putting a restriction upon the unlimited influx of the Chinese who, from already having the advantage of an earlier start and establish- ment and an easier and cheaper entrance, have placed the white laborer already at a serious disadvantage.

DWYER

20. This question can only be answered fairly by distinguishing Some whites can cases. Some of the white people can find all that is stated, others of cannot. certain trades certainly cannot. These trades are shoemakers, tailors, domestic servants, laundry-workers, gardeners, fish-curers, choppers, and, in a lesser degree, other artisans and workers, such as cigar-makers, builders' assistants, brick-makers, etc. The consequence is that no white laborers can take up, or work at these trades, or at least this can only be done at rates inadequate for family support and reasonable provision for old age.

21. Yes; it has had such an effect.

22. Undoubtedly so, and particularly of the working classes; nay, even White immigra- some of these have left in consequence of the Chinese workers.

23. If the Chinese evade the law about paying taxes, if they are opium- eaters, if gamblers on desperate risks, if they are notorious thieves, if they have no regard for their oaths in courts of justice-these features of their character and conduct point them out as out-doing the common classes of sinners among the white people, and actually becoming the examples of vices otherwise unknown or but very partially tried in practice.

24. In respect to the offences named above, the Chinese are bad As to whether examples beyond their own nationality; and, in particular, wherever they are found in numbers with a white population in juxtaposition, there whites. the white people begin to use opium, which is a most demoralizing and injurious habit. The opium dens of San Francisco illustrate this position.

25. The viciousness and seductiveness of vice do not consist in "flaunt- ing it openly," but in carrying it out with quiet, screened effect; because the deception is thus all the greater, and the besetting sins of the Chinese are just of the latter kind, and not the former. It is only after a pretty long career of opium-eating or smoking one can judge of the effects by the appearance of the victim.

26. I have alluded to leprosy above.

27. I respectfully invite attention to the letter appended. [See Appen- dix B.]

PHILIP DWYER, A.M.

ROBERT DUNSMUIR, M. P. P., proprietor of the Wellington Coal Mines, DUNSMUIR. returned the following answers :-

Q. Have you resided for some years in this province ? If so, for how many ?- A. I have resided in the province of British Columbia for over thirty-two years.

Q. Have you had any experience as an employer of labor ?-- A. I have Employs from 700 had considerable experience in the employment of labor. At the present Chinese in to 800 whites and time I have from seven to eight hundred whites and Chinese employed in mini g. coal mining.

Q. What kinds of labor do you employ, and in what works ?- A. As before stated, I employ both whites and Chinese. The whites are usually

find work ; others

Opening up of railway lands had attracted white immigration.

tion had been re- tarded.

Influence on whites.

Chinese are more immoral than

employed digging coal, as blackmiths, carpenters and engineers. The. Chinese are put to the work that best suits them-ordinary manual labor.

Q. Do you find Asiatic and white labor equally available for all pur -- poses ?- A. No. The whites do the skilled labor and the Chinese the manual work.

Q. In what respect do the Asiatic, or Chinese laborers fall short, either physically or mentally, of the white laborer ?- A. The Chinese, or Asiatic laborers do not fall short, in any respect, of white labor, if put to the work they are capable of doing.

Q. Do you find them competent to take charge of large gangs of men, or to manage and repair machinery if at all intricate or complicated in its mechanism ? A. I find them quite competent to take charge of large gangs of men of their own race, but I have not found them capable, or trusty in repairing intricate machinery, as I have not tried them, but the Chinese being very ingenious, and quick to imitate, I have no doubt they could learn to do so successfully.

Q. In what state of health do they arrive in this country ?- A. So far as I know the Chinese arrive in this county, as a general thing, in very good health.

Q. Do you find them hardy and industrious, or otherwise ?- A. I find them as a rule, both industrious and hardy.

Q. Are they quiet and sober, or drunken or turbulent ?- A. I consider them temperate and peaceable.

Q. Are they frugal and economical, or extravagant with their wages. when earned ?- A. They are both frugal and saving, except when given to gambling, a vice, however, which they, as a general thing, confine- among themselves.

Q. Do they keep their labor engagements, or are they disposed to break them ?- A. They keep their engagements and fulfil their contracts, and when any of them are taken sick, or become disabled, substitutes are usually furnished, without any trouble to foremen or superintendents.

Q. Have you any knowledge whether their labor partakes of the charac- ter of slave labor, and that some other person besides the laborer himself benefits from his wages ?- A. I have heard that others than the actual workman benefit from his labor, but I have never been able to trace it to, fact in my business relations with Chinese labor, because those of that race employed by me receive their wages at the pay-table individually, the same as the whites do. In my experience, I do not consider the Chi- nese laborer as a slave in any sense in this province.

Q. To whom are wages generally paid : that is to say, are they paid to the laborer himself, or to some third party ? State fully, please, all you know on the subject of this and the previous question ? - A. In my answer to the previons question, I think I have covered the whole ground, so far as the two questions are concerned.

Q. In what condition was the labor market when the Chinese began to come to British Columbia, as respects supply and demand, both in regard.

DUNSMUIR

to outside work as well as in regard to domestic servants ?- A. The con- dition of the labor market before the Chinese began to arrive in this province was that few laborers were required of any kind, as very little work was being prosecuted either upon this Island or upon the mainland. The limited amount of work was, at one time, performed by Indians, who, with few exceptions, could not be depended upon for more than a month at a time. White labor was tried under ground and at a high rate of wages, but it was difficult to obtain that labor. Their places to-day, to a great extent, are filled by Chinese. Domestic servants in those days were not much needed, and there was very little demand for ordinary white labor.

Q. Has the immigration of Chinese contributed to or retarded the Chinese had con- development of this province ?- A. The immigration of Chinese has, I velopment of tributed to de- consider, materially aided the general development of the country, from country. the fact that they have assisted in pushing to completion the public works undertaken, and could always be depended upon as a labor power. They have, moreover, pitched into that kind of work which, from its arduous nature and humble character, has deterred the proportion of in- 'coming white men from accepting willingly in a new country where they immediately expected to better their position, or step into a better place than the one they had just left.

Q. Has the immigration of Chinese contributed to or retarded the im- White immigra- migration of white labor ?- A. I do not think the gradual influx of tion not retarded. Chinese has retarded the incoming of white labor, as I find few of those new white arrivals willing to undertake the work performed by them in other countries, but declined here and given to Chinese laborers.

Q. Has the immigration of Chinese contributed to or retarded the in- Presence of Chi- coming of capital from other countries ?- A. Had it not been for the available Chinese labor the same progress and development in this province could not have been made, and their presence has therefore stimulated in- vestments of capital in many directions.

in-flow of capital ..

Q. Has the presence of the Chinese made capital more remunerative But for Chinese here than it otherwise would havebeen ?- A. Undoubtedly so, for the reasons coal-mining would be se- given in my answer to the previous question. And I may say that, were riously retarded .. it not for Chinese labor, the business I am engaged in specially, coal- mining, would be seriously retarded and curtailed, and it would be impos- sible to sell this product and compete favorably in the market of San Francisco with vessels from other ports which carry coal as ballast. It may be stated in this connection that San Francisco is, in fact, the only important market for coals from the mines of this province at present.

Q. Have the Chinese, either directly or indirectly, developed agriculture Very successful , in this province, and if so to what extent and in what manner; and to what as gardeners. extent, in your opinion, would the same development have taken place had there been no Chinese immigration ?- A. They have not developed agriculture to any great extent, but as gardeners they have been very successful, being contented with small plots of land which they cultivate industriously and profitably. A good deal of wild land has in this way been redeemed from the primeval state by this class of people.

Q. How far have the Chinese developed, if at all, the mining industry Extent to which Chinese contri- here ? A. They have assisted, so far, by performing labor in coal mines buted to develop-

ment of mining ..

9

which others refused to perform, at wages that made such mining pay. Without them this department of the mining industry would have had slower and less important development in this province, and the export trade of this product would have been infinitely less, because it would have been impossible but for their labor to compete in this respect in foreign markets.

Q. Would it have been for the best interests of this province that the gold mines worked by the Chinese should have remained until such times as it would have been profitable for white men to work them ?- A. While I do not pretend to know a great deal about the gold mines of the province, my information leads me to believe that in a very large number of cases it will be found that the Chinese are working and developing mines abandoned by white men as useless or unprofitable ; and I am of the opinion, without having consulted any recent reports, or examined late data, that the out- put from these mines worked by the Chinese forms an important proportion of the aggregate gold product of British Columbia.

Q. How far is the agitation against the Chinese political and in the interests of any one class of the people of this province, and how far would their exclusion or forced removal go to disturb the labor market, or render this province more or less attractive to capitalists, or new set- tlers, or to the present residents ?- A. I consider the agitation against the Chinese as largely political, for I have heard no argument against them as yet which convinces me that they are a drawback to this province or to this part of the Dominion. I consider their presence as beneficial to the progress and development of the country, as an important factor in the labor market ; and I am satisfied, so far as my personal experience goes, that the province generally is not unfavorably influenced by Chinese labor, race prejudices to the contrary notwithstanding. I do not believe that any class of our people assisting to develop this province are suffering from the competition of these people. White men decline to do the work given to the Chinese, and could not live in this country at the present prices of products on the wages paid the Chinamen. Some of the trades, such as shoe-makers, tailors, cigar-makers, etc., are affected by Chinese labor and are compelled to manufacture goods at a low figure, the ordinary working- man, agriculturist, etc., is, however, benefited by the competition. If the mine-owners were compelled to pay the wages now asked and obtained by white laborers, supposing they would consent to do the manual labor for which the Chinese receive much smaller pay, they, the mine-owners, could not compete in the markets now open to them, especially San Francisco, the principal market for British Columbia coals, where other foreign coal product is carried as ballast.

Q. How far would the exclusion of Chinese interfere with the speedy completion of the public works which are contemplated in this province ?- A. I believe the exclusion of Chinese would retard the construction of public works and increase the cost of them very materially both as regards those under way and those contemplated.

Q. Assuming that some legislation is necessary in the direction of discouraging the continued immigration of Chinese into British Columbia, should that legislation be prohibitive, restrictive, or merely regulative ? Please state your views fully on this point ?-- A. In regard to legislation I do not think any measures of a prohibitive nature are required at this early day, nor do I believe that legislation should take place either to

DUNSMUIR

restrict or regulate the incoming of Chinese, for the simple reason that they will not arrive in larger numbers than the requirements of the labor market demand.

Q. How far would exclusive or severely restrictive legislation affect the Excluding Chi- trade interests of the Dominion or of this province, in view of the early .completion of the Canadian Pacific Railway ? A. I may state that it is my belief that the grand plan of opening up and controlling the Asiatic trade by a Canadian railway from ocean to ocean would be seriously affected, if not vincial enter- actually defeated, by legislating the Chinese out of the country at this time. prises. In addition to jeopardising provincial enterprises, now in successful opera- tion, other portions of our Dominion, expecting benefits and profits from transcontinental traffic over the Canadian Pacific Railway, tapping oriental trade, would of course share in any evil effects resulting from injudicious ·or preventative legislation.

nese impairs our chances of con- trolling the Asiatic trade as well as jeopardizes pro-

Q, How far from your observation has the presence of Chinese in this The morals of province, both as domestic servants and otherwise, affected the morals of jured by Chinese. whites not in- white people ?- A. I have never been made aware, I am glad to say, either by observation or otherwise, of any ill effects upon the morals of respectable whites from contact with the Chinese ; and I am informed that it is only the depraved of both races who assimilate in evil practices.

Q. How far is the speedy settlement of this question necessary to quiet If Chinamen had the public mind, and would its settlement in the sense of excluding the votes the agita- tion would cease. Exclusion would kill the Asiatic Chinese affect the prospect of an early development of the Asiatic trade with Canada ? A. To the first part of the question I answer that if it trade. were possible for Parliament to bring in a bill speedily to give the China- man the franchise there would be less anti-Chinese agitation ; and as respects the second part of the interrogation I think legislation excluding the Chinese would kill the prospect of an Asiatic trade with Canada.

Q. Have you any other information in connection with the Chinese in British Columbia to offer the Commissioners on this enquiry ? A. I think the questions already replied to cover the ground and I have nothing further to add to my answers, and no additional information to volunteer at the present time.

R. DUNSMUIR, M.P.P.

NANAIMO, B.C., October 15th, 1884.

J. PAWSON, of Nanaimo, returned the following answers :- PAWSON.

1. Laborers.

2. Being slaves to all intents and purposes, it is not likely that sick and Chinese immi- indigent cripples would be selected.

grants healthy laborers.

3. When by accident or sickness they become incapacitated for work Sometimes steal. they resort to larceny, at which occupation they are adepts ; and if they are not able to follow this occupation their doctors and highbinders see . that they do not live to a green old age, while many prefer the peniten- tiary.

4. Being slaves and under the strict surveillance of the Chinese compa- Sober as regards nies, they are bound to be industrious. Their kind of intoxication, Viz., smoke opium. whiskey, but

opium, is not a turbulent kind of intoxication, nevertheless it is equally pernicious.

5. Their very engagements depend upon it, and the masters or owners see that they do that unless a better remuneration offers ; and they do not consider contracts.

6. They do, to the detriment of the province in particular, and the Domi- nion generally ; they push themselves into every avenue of trade that has been proved profitable by white settlers. As shop-keepers, having no families, they do not keep up extensive establishments, but live cheaply and sleep on their shelves or under the counter, and can and do undersell white traders. who live like civilized beings and have to keep up a respectable establish- ment, educate their children, and occasionly buy their wives a new bonnet. They are in all profitable branches of trade and come into competition with nearly all classes. With merchants, especially of Chinese productions, with traders, manufacturers, fishermen, etc., in all cases I firmly believe to the injury of the Dominion.

7. They supplied no want than could have been much better filled by immigrants from the neighboring states or Europe ; they filled domestic- positions that would have been much better occupied by white women of our own civilization who would have married and become the mothers of a rising generation, whereas they brought their prostitutes and filthy diseases. They were welcomed by the same class of individuals that now desire to perpetuate their stay-men that have no object beyond their own aggrandizement and selfish greed, and who would worship Confucius rather- than Christ if they were going to make money out of it.

Feeling against Chinese always strong in a majo- 8. The feeling against Chinese not being desirable immigrants always existed and still exists amongst a large majority of our population. The. rity of the people. exceptions are largely composed of monopolists who desire them as a standing threat against the liberty of white labor.

9. It began in 1858 and 1859 amongst the gold miners of British Columbia, who for some years successfully kept them out of the gold mines ; and it is now being carried on by all classes and conditions of society, but more especially by the settlers, miners, and workingmen of the province.

10. They live huddled together in shanties or houses; twenty or thirty would lodge in a house only large enough for a white laborer. They close up the windows and exclude all light and air almost. All filth and refuse is hoarded up in or near their dwelling to be carried away by the vegetable raisers when it suits their convenience. A very large percentage of crimes committed in the province is perpetrated by them, and it is difficult to make arrests owing to the manner in which they live, and it is still more difficult to make a conviction as you can place no reliance on their oath. I speak from the experience of some years as a justice of the peace.

11. I do not think that they have been conducive to the best interests of the province, as they are imitators, and never launch out in original channels ; and as they are only sojourners, wishing to get all they can to. carry it away, they rarely make any permanent improvements.

12. Personally, I should think not.

PAWSON

13. They would feel relieved of a terrible incubus that is hanging like The Chinese a pall over this fair land, clouding and threatening its moral and social incubus would be withdrawn an existence.

lifted from the province.

14. The number required.

15. Perhaps a sufficient number to give the eastern provinces a taste of their quality.

16. Persons with capital coming from Europe or America would import a superior class of domestics who would be a much greater acquisition to the province.

17. Total restriction of all Chinese immigration.

18. I would refer you to the Restriction Acts of the United States and Should be exclud- the Australian colonies.

ed. Witness points to the acts of the U. S. and Australian co- lonies.

19. Remove the moral and social ulcer and you would find a far more Remove the permanent and speedy development of our resources. A few monopolists would not get so rapidly and unwieldily rich, but as soon as white labor was relieved of the onus of having to compete with slave labor there would be an influx of men desirous of making homes and growing with the country- men who would defend those homes with their life's blood against the aggressor. I cannot see that it is so conducive to the interests of our country to have cheap labor. Let the laborer have a fair share of the wealth he produces. You protect your industries by a discriminating tariff, why should labor not be protected from the competition of the hungry slaves of Asia.

Chinese and white immigra- tion would flow in.

20. Those competent to perform skilled labor can, but those laborers Skilled white who have to depend on unskilled labor are brought directly in competition employment, but with Chinese slaves and have to leave our shores. This is no place for them ; while laborers with families complain that they can get no occupation for their boys and girls, because the work done by boys in the mines in Emg- land and elsewhere have their places filled with Chinamen in this pro- vince, while there is no room for the girls in domestic situations without they submit to be employed along with Chinamen, which is repulsive.

21. I do not see what it has got to do with the Chinese question, and I do not think that either the province or the Dominion can long claim to having displayed any particular alacrity in removing the embargo. There is no doubt that if the restriction had been removed some years ago there would have been a much larger area settled by the most desirable kind of immigrants who came here and were disappointed and had to find homes in the neighboring states and territories.

22. Most decidedly.

23. After an experience of thirty-two years in this province, the Austra- lian colonies, and California, I should pronounce them demoralizing in the extreme, especially to the young and rising generation ; they are so easy of access and so shamelessly wanton in their licentiousness.

24. Nearly the whole of their females that leave China are professed prostitutes, from children ten or twelve years of age to old hags, while their is scarcely a Chinaman but what indulges in opium and gambling.

labor can find unskilled cannot.

White immigra- tion retarded.

Chinese demoral- izing to rising generation.

Nearly all Chinese immigrants immoral.

PAWSON

Worse than any-| thing in large European cities.

25. In early days in California I have seen sights that I could not describe in this paper, and I am certain there is nothing to compare with them in the large cities of Europe.

26. I am not a medical man, so I have kept as far away from reported cases as possible.

27. I have no opportunity of culling statistical information here as it is only a small town with no library.

J. PAWSON.

GORDON. DAVID WILLIAM GORDON, M. P. for Vancouver, contractor and builder, head of the firm of Gordon & Co., wharf-owners, returned the follow- ing answers :-

Chinese immi- grants gathered in the main from criminals and paupers and prostitutes.

1. So far as I have been able to gather from the most reliable Chinese. and other available sources, the class of immigrants, or more properly speaking slaves or serfs, who are brought here from China, are gathered by the agents of the Chinese companies from amongst the criminal and poverty-stricken population of that over-crowded empire, largely from the seaports and rivers, where crime and poverty are the prevailing features. When they arrive here they follow any pursuit their owners can turn them to with advantage. The females, in ninety-nine cases out of a hun- dred, being prostitutes, are sold for that purpose to their countrymen on arrival.

Healthy but filthy.

2. Their being selected for a period of servitude, those selecting them. would naturally, in their own interest, select the strongest of their class. The restrictions and regulations governing the ships of all civilized nations, as to number and treatment of passengers, is a partial assurance that they should arrive in ordinary good health, though their filth on arrival has been described to me by medical officers to have been horrid in the extreme.

Some show grati- tude but many rob.

3. No. But they frequently receive kindnesses from the whites, and. many of them are willing to reciprocate a kindness, but others repay them by robbing hen-roosts, orchards, and clothes-lines.

Compelled as slaves to be industrious.

Domestics an exception.

4. Serving under some system of slavery, semi-slavery, or serfdom, that- claims and receives submissive obedience to some form of Asiatic tyranny unknown to our laws, they are obliged to be industrious. So were the slaves of the South. Their revenues or earnings not being under their own absolute individual control, they are necessarily economical. Chinese rice, Chinese prepared vegetables, Chinese prepared and dried fruits, fish and vegetable oils, being their chief diet, there is not much room for Feed on wretched extravagance. I have never yet known an English or French gentleman food. from the old countries who would feed their dogs upon the food usually consumed by the ordinary Chinese laborer. Of course, domestics in the service of white families, for obvious reasons, are an exception, as they feast on the fragments. I am sure that no Canadian, whether of Anglo- Saxon, Teutonic, or Gallic origin, desires to see any class of immigrants come to their country who are not entitled to claim for their toil the best living that a fertile soil and fruitful seas can produce, whether they fol -. low the plough, dig in the mine, toil upon the sea, at the loom, at the anvil or the bench, or in the counting-house. The good living that now

GORDON

form marked features of our country, from the Atlantic to the Pacific, would be forever beyond the hopes of the multitude whose industry alone can make Canada what we should desire it to be, were they once reduced to the wages of Asiatic serfdom. The question might reasonably be asked : How During last fiscal could a Chinese laborer afford to get drunk and smoke opium ? And yet during the last fiscal year there was imported from China spirits and wines valued at $16,720, and opium valued at $95,354. Nor is it believed by imported. any person familiar with the quantity of Chinese brandy consumed by the coolies on the railway, but that the quantity consumed has been far in excess of that represented by the customs returns. The inference is that Chinese brandy a large quantity must have been smuggled into the province. No part of smuggled. Canada offers the same facilities for smuggling that the extended frontier. of British Columbia affords. A few have been detected at New West- minster, but there is no reason to doubt but a great number avoid detec- tion. To despoil the revenue is one of the fundamental principles of their organization. If they ever practice extravagance, except on their feast days, it is at the expense of some poor white man's chicken roost, orchard or garden. Chinese merchants, who generally live liberally, are exempt from the above charge.

Those Chinese companies who have the coolies under their control, possessed of a cunning civil organization, and dissimulation, to us 'incom- prehensible, would never allow any turbulence among those under them to lead them into open conflict with the white population, especially at a . time when the neighboring republic is endeavoring to exclude them from their domains. Their docility is due to a keen sense of the repugnance of their institutions to the institutions of the Anglo-Saxon people.

5. Contracts with white companies or other white employers are almost Explanation why invariably made with the representatives of one of the six Chinese com- contracts are kept. panies, in which the Chinese laborers have no part, further than to obey the bosses detailed by the respective companies to oversee them. The latter being ignorant of the personal liberty guaranteed them under our laws, and under a terrible dread of violating the code of the particular company under which they are serving, submit to any hardship that may be imposed upon them, though not without murmuring to the whites, to whom they frequently complain bitterly. The contracting parties no doubt as in most other cases keep their engagements, on the ground that no work no pay is the key to the position.

Another security the general employers of that class of semi-slave labor have is this, that they engage with one of the Chinese companies for such large numbers that, in case of disputes arising, the companies would find it impossible to distribute their semi-slaves in large numbers into other pursuits with any prospect of permanent employment, and a general or even partial distribution destroys their power to govern them and keep them under control and in submission to their code.

6. Most decidedly. Their policy is "spoil the Egyptians." Under some Chinese interfere system of participation peculiar to their code, but unknown to us, a class with whites in every branch of of Chinese more intelligent than the ordinary laborer is being pushed into industry. every branch of trade and commerce. As merchants they dress and deal exclusively in Chinese goods, to the detriment of the manufactories of Canada. They never invest their money in any new business or enter- prise until it has been founded, developed, and made profitable by white labor. Their earnings and the profits of their commerce are sent out of the Dominion in hard cash, and never becomes reinvested in the develop-

year China spirits and wines worth $16,720, and opium worth $95,354

Chinese mer- chants of a dif- ferent character ..

Chinese docility accounted for.

ment of the natural or other resources of our country, differing entirely in that respect from emigrants from Europe or white emigrants from other parts of America.

They are a constant menace to those better elements who are fast filling up other portions of the Dominion. The cholera, or other pestilence, or famine, could not be more effectual in restraining an influx of white laborers into this province, than the presence of sixteen, or eighteen thousand Mongolian slaves or serfs, or whatever they are. No white laborer possessed of the least particle of that self-respect common to the people of any of the eastern provinces, United States or Europe will voluntarily submit to the same dominancy to which they are obliged to submit.

They practice their pagan rites with a prominence and effrontery repulsive to the strain of modern thought. Their gatherings in our various communities attracts many, alas, too many, of our young boys, who from idle curiosity are drawn together to witness them practice the peculiar phases of Asiatic heathensism. They have lost no opportunity of denouncing the cross, and all those who reverence it, as too muchee lie ; and jeer at it, and at all religious denominations founded upon its history, in the most opprobrious epithets to which their pigeon or broken English can give expression. There are a few who have feigned conversion, whether real or not no one can tell, but even they are like light-houses on the coast of Africa, few and far between. Their miserable cheap labor can never compensate for the curse they have already inflicted, and will continue to inflict, on the institutions of our country-a curse that even if their immigration were restrained or prohibited to-morrow would not be obliterated for a century.

Have supplied no want which would not have been laborers. 7. So far as my observations have extended, covering a period of twenty- six years, they have not supplied a want but what could have been sup- supplied by white plied, with more profit to the province and the Dominion, from among the civilized nations of western Europe, or from our own eastern provinces or the United States. They were welcomed only by a few whose inordinate greed would lead them to sell or sacrifice the best interests of any coun- try for personal gain. No true Canadian having the best interest of his country's future at heart has ever welcomed them.

8. That feeling against the Chinese still continues amongst the best elements of our province, those who will willingly defend it should occasion arise requiring their services-a duty to which a railway contractor, and one or two coal companies, and their Mongolians, would not be likely to contribute very extensively, except as an embarrassment.

9. Answer to Nos. 7 and 8, may be regarded as an answer to this number.

10. The Commission would think so had they visited their precincts as I have done as a grand juryman, and at a time when the Chinese did not expect such a visit. Though not boasting of extreme modesty, yet I would not write down in a paper of this character what I have seen, but would have no objections to describe privately to members of the Commission, of the Government, or of Parliament, the disgusting scenes I have at times been forced to witness. Fortunately I have never yet been obliged to dine with them ; but the Public Accounts for the last fiscal year give some indication of their living. I attach below some of the articles and their values :

GORDON

Opium from China

$ 95,354

Debasing luxury.

From other countries

3,894

(Debasing luxury)

$ 99,248

Rice from China .

$112,943

Spirits and wines

16,727

Pickles, sauces, etc

1,548

Prepared vegetables of all kinds

8,290

11. Not to the same extent that a male white population of half their Have not deve- number would have done. Their serfdom has made a few white men rich at the expense of their province and of their race. Slavery in the South accomplished the same villainous results.

loped the province to the extent white men would have done.

12. No, not in my estimation.

13. Salutary.

No longer ne- cessary. Their entire with- drawal would have a salutary effect on the province.

quiry how many are necessary.

14. Yes, enough to distribute amongst the cities of the eastern pro- Answer to en- vinces, as follows :-- viz., Ottawa, 4,000 ; Montreal, 4,000 ; St. Johns, N. B., 2,000 ; Halifax, 2,000; Quebec, 2,000 ; Toronto, 2,000; London, 1,000 ; and Hamilton, 1,000, and as many more as the inhabitants of those cities may petition for after they shall have had some experience of Asiatic enterprise and virtue, and the cost of their distribution to be borne by the Department of Immigration.

15. The immigration of Chinese, I am speaking from a British Columbia There should be standpoint, should be in the proportion that nothing bears to the gross immigration. no Chinese number of whites that may be expected to arrive in the province, during any given period or periods of time.

16. It would most undoubtedly be good. The supply would soon Capitalists would be found equal to the demand if it once became known in the other provinces, in the United States, and in Europe, that immigrants coming to this province would not be confronted with thousands of Mongolian serf- laborers and domestics.

come more readily if Chinese away.

17. Mode of dealing with those now in the province as suggested in In favor of answer to No. 14. Their further advent should be prohibited. exclusion.

18. By an Act of the Parliament of Canada with good and sufficient machinery to enforce its prohibitory provisions.

19. No, not unless Chinese immigration is prohibited. They would Unless Chinese be imported by the few referred to in my answer to No. 7, in such immigration prohibited no numbers and so long as they could be used as a base currency upon which combined effort to fix the value of free white labor. With Chinese immigration prohibited, would secure white immigra- a more desirable class than any assisted, or forced, immigration would tion. naturally come in, equal to all the requirements of a healthy and pro- gressive development.

20. Not to any extent, because those who may come, or may be desirous Whites cannot of coming, are confronted by 18,000 Mongolian slaves-semi-slaves, or find sufficient employment serfs, or men who are not governed by their own individual will, but who owing to Chinese.

GORDON

are governed in aggregates by the Chinese companies. But with Chinese excluded, white men will be as able, if frugal, to feed, clothe, and educate their families, and lay by something for old age, and still leave larger profits on the investments of those who employ them, than in any other part of the Dominion.

Opening up of public lands had stimulated white they should have been opened up before.

21. Yes ; but had those lands been opened eleven years ago a great many of our most enterprising countrymen would have formed prosperous immigration ; but settlements, but who became disgusted with their inability to obtain land within any reasonable distance of the older communities, on account of the railway embargo, and have been driven to seek their fortunes and build up prosperous settlements under a foreign flag The change in that miserable, nay criminal, policy comes too late to entitle either the pro- vincial or Dominion Governments to claim any glory that may now seem to attach to it.

White immigra- tion had been retarded.

22. Yes, most decidedly. I have advised a great many who have written to me from each of the older provinces not to come here and enter the labor market on a level with the Chinese. Better live on corn husks in the older provinces than submit to such degradation.

Moral effect bad.

23. The moral effect on whites of being so unfortunate as to be placed on the same level and obliged to comingle with Chinese on an equal footing in the battle of life would be bad, too bad for any respectable Canadian to contemplate.

24. I do not know of any white population, either here or in the eastern provinces, similarly situated to the Chinese in this province, consequently there can be no scale by which a proportion can be arrived at sufficient to furnish a definite answer.

Flaunt their vices.

25. I have seen them in San Francisco flaunting their vices in such a degraded and revolting manner that it would be an insult to our race to compare even the most depraved with them. Here I am told their vices are more insidious, and all the more dangerous because of the curiosity and adventure that is thereby excited.

Leprosy.

26. I have no personal knowledge whatever more than that Chinese have a terrible dread of the loathsome disease, a much greater dread than the inhabitants of the Maritime Provinces have of the lazaretto and its inmates. They regard it as both contagious and infectious, and abandon any unfortunate who may be affected with it to a miserable fate, cutting him entirely off from any communication whatever with his countrymen.

Statistics to show their worthless- ness as settlers.

27. It may be noted that during the fiscal year ending 30th June last that settlers effects were entered in British Columbia as follows :-

From the United States $ 23,804 6,220

Great Britain China Nil

indicating more clearly than any pen picture in my power to delineate their utter worthlessness as settlers.

Dutiable goods imported from China.

It is also worthy of attention and to note the fact that the total dutiable goods imported from China during the same period amounted to the sum of $308,477, while goods imported from all other countries of a similar classification amounted to $907,509, and that we imported from other countries $1,650,870 worth of goods differing in classification from those

GORDON

entered or imported from China, making a total from all other countries of $2,558,379. Other Provinces imported from China as follows :---

Free goods.

Dutiable goods. . Imports.

Ontario

$ 207,566

Nil

Quebec

194,220

$ 107,405

Nova Scotia

Nil

376

New Brunswick

3,450

Nil

Manitoba

1,441

336

P. E. Island

Nil

Nil

British Columbia

32,501

293,738

Some errors may have crept into the amounts I abstracted from the classification which aggregated as above, viz. : $308,477.

Exports to China, exclusive of gold and silver, of which there is no return :-

Ontario produce.

$ 137

Exports to China. ..

Quebec .

Nil

Nova Scotia.

Nil

New Brunswick

Nil

Manitoba.

Nil

P. E. Island

Nil

British Columbia :

Produce of the Mine

$ 29,190

Fisheries

900

Forest

63,243

Animals not produce

431

Manufactures

931

Miscellaneous articles not produce.

528

$ 95,223

the province earn $2,400,000 per an- num, $1,800,000 net earnings and $340,978 for China products sent out of the province.

Assuming there are 16,000 Chinese in the province, and assuming that 16,000 Chinese in they are employed only 150 days out of the 314 working days, a proportion that I admit is far too small, small though it is it would represent earnings at a dollar per diem aggregating $2,400,000 per annum, and deducting one- fourth for their food and clothing we are obliged to assume that there has been sent out of the province during that period alone in cash, either gold or silver, $1,800,000 of net earnings, and $340,978 to pay for the products of China with which they feed and clothe their coolies and debauch them and others susceptible to their influences. A careful study of the imports and exports of the Dominion proves to my mind that all immigrants com- ing to us from either the United Kingdom or the continent of Europe or from other British colonies or the United States become naturalized Canadians, become part and parcel with us, assimilate and become active participants in our polictical, religious and social institutions, will assist materially in developing our country, will defend it if required, and their children will become Canadians in the highest sense of the term. I defy either the Commission, or the Government, or Parliament to show the least particle of proof that Chinese can ever fulfil these important conditions.

The customs returns also prove that our great alliance in trade and commerce is with the United Kingdom and her colonies, and with the tural immigration United States whose institutions are so closely allied to our own, and whose for Canada. laws like those of the United Kingdom and her colonies and dependencies, including the Dominion of Canada, afford the greatest protection to pro- perty and civil rights, and, separately or conjointly, guarantee an amount of

The best blood off Europe the na-

personal liberty that is a standing menace to the tyrannies of the old world, whether in Europe, Asia or Africa ; and in consequence of that liberty, we like the other colonies and the neighboring republic will continue to draw to our shores the best blood of continental Europe, those who know the value of freedom and have an ambition to found homes for themselves and families. Shall the fair prospects of this Pacific province be marred with a flood of the worst and most degraded elements of paganism, and made a reformatory for Asiatic criminals and a nursery of vice ?

VICTORIA, B.C., October 30th, 1884.

The Hon. Mr. Justice CREASE, Judge of the Supreme Court of British Columbia, submits the following answers :-

1. The classes of persons who come here as emigrants from China are almost entirely the lowest class of laborers or coolies, with a sprinkling of merchants ; no mechanics or artisans, no skilled laborers.

2. They usually arrive in good bodily health and fit for work. There was a cry of leprosy, but it was disproved by our own doctors.

3. There is no system of poor relief in British Columbia. There are no poor. There are benevolent societies, confined to particular nationalities (in name only), which extend aid in cases of sickness or the like. On these the Chinese do not come. They have their own benevolent society recently established. Previously their sick were sent to our hospitals and so became chargeable on our charity in hospital cases, or were cared for by their own people. They are never that I am aware of a burden on private charity.

4. They are kat' exocheen industrious, sober, economical and law-abiding, and in all those respects quite a pattern to the whites, and have always been so. It is because of these very qualities that white labor is jealous of them. As a class, indeed as individuals, they are neither lazy, drunken, extravagant nor turbulent. I have never seen in all these years (twenty-five) a drunk- en Chinaman. Occasionally on the railway works where they have suffered, or fancied they suffered great frauds at the hands of their own middlemen, sometimes even at the hands of the white foremen, they have resisted, and violent assaults have been the consequence. For these they have been severely punished whenever they have come before the courts. As in all large bodies of workmen, especially that lower substratum of labor from which some of our railway labor has been recruited, especially in British Columbia, bad individuals have been refractory and created trouble, but not more than, probably not so much as, on other similar works in the neigh- boring states. Among themselves (the Chinese) crimes of violence, even occasional murders have occurred, which from the secrecy of their mode of life, or our ignorance of it, have defied the investigations of the police. But this failure very likely arises from the almost universal igno- rance in British Columbia of the Chinese language. There is not a single Anglo-Chinese dictionary or grammar to be obtained either here or at San Francisco. It has generally been supposed from the secrecy with which some murders were committed (they are confined to two or three Chinese murders altogether in many years), which have occurred in British Colum- bia undiscovered, that the victims were executed by the decrees of some secret Chinese tribunal, like the Vehm-Gericht, having its centre in San

CREASE

Francisco, but I have not been able to discover a single fact which tended to corroborate that suspicion.

5. They are punctual to the extreme in money matters. They think Their life made up, as much of a shilling as we do of a dollar. Their whole life is made up of mies. Good-pays. of small econo- small economies. When they have by laborious degrees obtained money, they are as ready as any white man to enter into mining or other specula- tions all through the country. They are punctuality itself in meeting their pecuniary obligations and carrying out their contracts. In all these years that I have been continuously in British Columbia (namely, twenty-five), I do not know of a single case of a Chinaman who has been in the bank- ruptcy or insolvent court. This is not because they have not credit, for Chinese merchants, punctual to the day and hour in monetary engagements, can obtain what credit they please, (money is of no nationality), but this fact is accounted for because they are practically scrupulously honest. In all this they set an admirable example to white men. What British Columbia wants is small coin, and small economies, as a system to inculcate practi- cally the habit of frugality.

6. In coming to British Columbia, and while here, the Chinese have no Interfere with idea of interfering with the property of the white population in any way whites only in labor field. beyond the ordinary competition which they offer in the labor market. They are not mechanics or artisans.

7. When the Chinese first came to this place they supplied a felt want, one which had become almost intolerable in the way of labor and domestic service. The white settlers who first came to the country were very few in number, and had their own work to attend to. Those who followed in the search after gold all wanted to be "bosses," or either their own masters or superintendents of other men's work. When the railway office was first opened for white laborers in British Columbia, out of every hundred some eighty wanted to be "bosses." The prices they charge for white labor here have, ever since I have been here-that is, since my arrival in 1858-been simply prohibitive to the ordinary employer of White labor so labor : $2, $2.50, and even at times $3 a day for ordinary labor ; for be prohibitive. mechanics, $3, $4, $5, or more per day. All the first settlers who came here arrived without money. It required a large sum, as well as a long time, an adventurous spirit, and lots of pluck even to get here with a family, 15,000 miles from home in those days. The country was a wilder- ness. All food and manufactured articles, such as clothing, tools, machinery, etc., were exceedingly dear. We had houses, churches, gaols, court-houses, and all other buildings to erect ; roads through forest and swamp to clear out and build ; trunk roads through the country in all directions to make ; in short, everything required for civilization the first settlers had to do ab initio, out of their own labor and savings, or money they could borrow from San Francisco. All this was effected without British Colombia assistance from the imperial treasury, which, in every other British colony, from its birth. self-supporting | had contributed largely to launch its infant offspring into political life. British Columbia had to be, and was, self-supporting from its birth. There is no other British colony with such a record. The proximity of British Columbia to its flourishing neighbor, the United States, while in some repects a great advantage-for this country at first possessed no capital or staple until gold broke out, and was dependent not only for capital, but for breadstuffs, cattle, clothing, groceries, indeed supplies of all kinds, on San Francisco and Oregon-was in other respects a great disadvantage. All the white labor which failed in obtaining in British Columbia the high

At first supplied a felt want.

· CREASE

Ships chartered to bring female servants from England round - Cape Horn.

· Chinese labor · employed at first reluctantly.

Success in mining

Usefulness of Chinese created a :good feeling towards them.

pay expected, had only to cross the border, an imaginary line close at hand, to obtain it. The Indians could not be depended upon at first on account of their numbers, which in those days were threatening, nor afterwards on account of their restless, nomadic propensities, which prevented them settling down to any permanent, industrious avocations. The English settlers had all the household and servile occupations to discharge them- selves : chop and cut wood, get water, clean the dishes, pots and pans ; cook, wash, bake, sew, and rear families, and discharge all the other oner- ous and multifarious duties of the ménage. In this strait a few, my- self among the number, chartered several ships with female servants from England round the Horn. We paid £30 ($150) a head for their passage, on engagements of gradual repayment out of wages at colonial rates after they arrived-a payment which, with a few honorable exceptions, I need hardly say, was rarely ever made. That proving a complete failure, Kanakas from the Sandwich Islands were tried and also failed ; so, by the mere process of exhaustion no resource was left but Chinese labor, which was accordingly employed, at first, very reluctantly. Every one had a great and not unnatural objection to try them ; but necessity has no law, it was Chinese labor or none at all. At first they were imported from San Francisco in isolated instances ; but gradually as the white woman saw her neighbor get some relief from the killing domestic slavery of colonial life she also adopted them, and, by the sheer necessity of the case, their employment as domestic servants became general, and at last universal. Such white labor as could be had was eminently unsatisfactory, not only on account of scarceness and price, but because, especially female servants, they would not submit to consider themselves in the household arrange- ments as in any respect subordinate to their employers. Immigrants who went to the mines, as in Cariboo, could get $10 a day, and some of them rendered ordinary got claims yielding in many instances, and for a considerable period 600 labor distasteful. ounces of gold to every wash-up. Success of this kind made ordinary labor to those engaged in that avocation ever after distasteful It is not Family life, but for the Chinese would have been intolerable. too much to say that without Chinese servants the privations in family life, extreme and of wearying monotony, would have become intolerable, and a general exodus of families would have been the result. Indeed as it was numerous industrious settlers with wives and families were driven out of the country on that account. The high prices the Chinese obtained from the first, as wages, up to the present day, are a very fair test of the High wages paid Chinese prove how necessary they are. necessity for their employment. From $15 per month, the lowest to an inferior man, up to $35 a month for the best (with board and lodging be it remembered) have been the continuous rates. Young boys, even $8 or $10. It is a singular fact that Chinese servants are the only class of people that are positively paid to learn their duty. This arises from their pecu- liar facility in adapting themselves to any work they have to learn, and their success in acquiring that knowledge. But if white servants, who would do the same work, and as well, at anything like the same wages, and who could be depended on to stay, were to offer themselves, they White domestic labor tried and ound wanting- would have been gladly accepted. But as a rule white domestic labor White such as it is has constantly been tried and found wanting. laborers attracted from the East by the prices here, invariably "fall into the ways of the country," and refuse to work at anything like what ordin- ary employers of labor consider reasonable or practicable rates. The relief given by Chinese aid to overworked households when sorely needed created a good feeling towards them. This good feeling lasted for some time. Their number was limited and no serious fears had yet been entertained of their competition in the labor market.

CREASE

8. This good feeling continued more or less nntil about the time of the This continued commencement of the Canadian Pacific Railway works in the province.

until C. P. R. works were begun.

that money should

9. Then a very laudable feeling arose that, if possible, such a vast Laudable desire expenditure of public money should be utilized by bringing into the be utilized in province white settlers, who should become heads of families, take root in bringing in new the soil and add greatly to the substantial strength of the Dominion. To settlers. this end it was deemed desirable that all the labor on the railway should be white labor, whose earnings would be spent and invested in the country, instead of going to a foreign country. And then began the cry, “No Chinese need apply !" But experience soon showed that the hope of any exclusive employment of white labor was far from being realized. The American and continental railways were simultaneously large rival bidders in the labor market. White labor in quantity and quality sufficient was But white labor unattainable, and nothing is more certain than that in the absence of not to be had. Chinese labor the enormous railway works, which are now progressing to completion, would have been indefinitely prolonged, if not postponed to the Greek Kalends from sheer want of hands. The outcry against the Chinese takes its rise in a great measure in the efforts of persons, who, for political motives, are desirous of posing themselves as the friends of the working classes, through their sweet votes to gain political power and influence. All political parties, the "ins " as well as the " outs," aim at this ; political. Agitation and through the press and orations, and even no little misrepresentation, -exaggerate. Admitted objections to their being adopted as citizens, and to too large an influx of a heathen element in our midst, were distorted into a desire for the proscription of the whole race. The bait to the working man : the exclusive command of the labor market. All political parties tend to this, and urge collectively the passing of laws which they do not hesitate, as individuals, to class as unconstitutional, in the hope that by constant clamor and agitation, in one direction, to overbear all the solid considerations on the other side, to break through all treaties which place Chinese on an equal footing with other nations, to impose illegal taxes and discriminating restrictions so that that may be obtained by injustice and persecution which could never be expected from justice and right. The object of course being to restrict the admission or, if possible, procure the total exclusion of Chinese labor and to win the sweet votes of the working man. The practical result of which, if successful, would necessarily be to create the worst of all monopolies, next to that of capital : the tyranny of excluding of labor under whose withering blight mines, fisheries, manufactures, arts, and improvements of all kinds would speedily languish or die, and the blight of flourish- development of the country, to which it is undeniable the labor of the ing industries. Chinese has so largely contributed, would be indefinitely retarded and cui bono ?

10. One chief outcry has been against their habits and mode of living They overcrowd. as being injurious to the public peace and health. Coming from a swarm- ing population in China, and, as I have stated, of the lower order of coolies, they have undoubtedly a tendency to congregate ; at all events to submit to being cooped in large numbers within a small area. But this in British Columbia is directly owing to the fact that as foreigners, held in dangerous disesteem by an active section of the whites, they naturally cling together for protection and support. Their very language keeps them together and Undoubtedly .apart from the whites; but much of this overcrowding is attributable to the whites themselves, who extort heavy rents from them for very scant could be dealt house accommodation, and they accentuate the very evil for which in public with by police.

Practical result Chinese : labor monopoly and the

they have vicious habits but these

11. But without the Chinese in any event the province could never have been developed as far as it has at present progressed. The best test of that is that we cannot, at present at all events, do without them. Their presence is not only necessary but in many respects desirable for the simple reason that the work must be done, and can only be done-in a province and by people, still very poor-through the agency of the Chinese or some similar labor. There is none other procurable at present which can do the work well.

they profess such profound dislike. Much has been said of their immor- ality, habits of prostitution, opium dens and gambling houses, and there is a. certain amount, indeed too great an amount, of truth in these accusations. It would be unreasonable to expect that a low class of laborers in any country should be free from such evils. All these, however, can be as. readily dealt with by the police as the same vicious habits among the whites. Indeed the latter in several respects do not gain by the compari- son. For the Chinese do not parade their vices ; their prostitutes do not set up large houses in the most prominent places, with brass plates on the door, or ply their trade with an air of semi-publicity, nor drive about in open carriages, or flaunt themselves on public race courses and assemblages, or advertise for the payment of debts due to them through the medium of the public press. Their "opium dens " and "gambling dens " are all known to the police and capable of being suppressed. But what of the white dens : whiskey establishments, and gambling saloons, and the sale of liquor to In- dians, who get it by the canoe load and wholesale ? I do not say that all these evils whether white or Chinese should not be determinedly sup- pressed, but there is such a manifest spirit of exaggeration in the com- plaints that are made, for the purpose I have described, as very materially to lessen in impartial eyes the accusations levelled against the Chinese. They are as a class very cleanly in their persons ; indeed, as to all those mat- ters laid to their charge, they are no worse than the same things done in our midst by white men themselves. If enquiry were made of the railway servants and the engineers on the permanent railway cuttings, what an account they can give of white, as well as Chinese abominations that abound there. Who that has seen a leading mainland town on the railway line on pay-days can ever forget the disgusting sights that everywhere met his eyes ? Furious drunken men in the streets, saloons and corners at all hours of the day and night, week-days and Sundays all alike, the fights, the uproar, the gambling, that made day and night hideous, besotted drunken whites kicked out of the houses, prostrate in the morning in the places where they fell over night sleeping off the effects of the previous debauch, only to stagger up and engage again in the same round of vice. These are the sights which one would fain forget, with other things about which the pen blushes to write.

13. If we ask ourselves what would be the effect of their suddenly going hence compulsorily or otherwise, the answer is immediate and overwhelming. The railway works would "peter out" for want of labor to construct them. The canneries would instantly be stopped. The shoe and other manufactories the same. The farmers would be at once injuriously affected. The coal mines would in several most important instances be abandoned. Improvements now only possible by Chinese labor would come to a sudden end, and the misery-domestic misery to 80 out of every 100 families here-would, to those who have not gone through it for so many years as we have, be inconceivable. It would be

1

CREASE

perfectly appalling. The wail of the housewife would sweep through the land, and find a very decided expression in every husband's vote at the polls, and that in a manner not very flattering to those who now affect to be the white laborer's friends. There is an unreality about this outcry An unreality against the Chinese that strikes one directly he takes pen in hand to write about the cry. on the subject. The advocates of exclusion make all the greater fuss over it, one is tempted to opine, the less likelihood they may think there is of its being carried out. The strike of the Chinese in Victoria when resisting an intentionally discriminating and illegal tax of $30 a head on all Chi- nese-although it occurred a few years ago-is too fresh in the recollection to be forgotten. The travelling public would soon let their voices be heard against such an exclusion ; for hotels and boarding houses Hotels and board- would be shut up, or offer utterly inadequate accommodation. Every ing houses would be shut up. house would have to grow its own vegetables or pay an extortionate white price for them. Indeed the whole country would be in an uproar, and all its industries and progress would receive a check from which it would take many years of great suffering to recover-and for what ? All for a political cry : "We are ruined by Chinese cheap labor !" Yes ! The commonest manual labor cheap at from $15 to $35 a month and found !

14. The real fact is, and the more completely it is recognized the better, In B. C, the that we cannot do without a certain number of Chinese for manual labor and for domestic servants, and that throughout all British Columbia. For any great works, too, which have to be carried out, such for instance as rail- ways, Chinese manual labor cannot at present be dispensed with. Good white labor is so far superior to Chinese, that it will of itself, when it can be contented with reasonable prices as in the East, infallibly work Chinese manual labor out of the field. No reasonable man will employ the labor of a person whose language he can never understand if he can get even as good service from one who cannot mistake his orders and can enter into all his wishes for the work in hand. But what is as necessary for the white man as the Chinaman is, that he should be sober, honest and steady at his work, and exhibit a fair share of all those qualities which go to constitute good labor. A certain number are at present an absolute necessity. At present all told, including the Chinese on railway works, and along the whole line, about 13,000. Of these there are probably only 5,000 or 6,000 engaged in domestic and family out-door work in the province including those in mines and canneries. So useful indeed have they been found that even in coal mines they have been employed by working miners themselves to assist them as their servants in getting out the, coal. They do not compete at all with mechanics, artisans, or handicraftsmen, or in any skilled labor. They are good market-gardeners, fair servants, and tolerable laborers; imitate quickly and learn quickly, and are good traders and merchants et voilà tout. They will never assimilate with the Anglo-Saxon race, nor is it desirable that they should. Certain degrees of labor contract of limited duration, amounting while it Cannot assimilate. lasts to a species of slavery, are said to be common among them. Like all low classes of people they have a low estimate of women. They do not regard British Columbia as their home and when they die send ther bones home to he buried in China.

Chinese cannot be done without.

Do not compete with skilled labor.

15. It is very difficult, almost an impossibility, to fix any definite limit or even approximate of the proportion which Chinese immigration should bear to white immigration, if the best interests of the colony and the

Difficulty of hold- ing white labor- ers.

10

comfort of the people are to be regarded ; and if only for this reason that no matter how many white people come to British Columbiah, they all come expecting certain rates, rates which British Columbians have not got the money to pay. If they do not get these rates, it is not as in Australia where they are obliged to stay, they can just skip over the boundary line into the United States, and there even if they do not get what they exact, they get more than than they can in a more newly settled country, and we never see them again. They go to swell the numbers and volume of the United States, just as the Swift, the Quesnelle, the Thompson and Lillctt Rivers and other affluents go to swell the depth and volume of the Fraser, or the colonies of England add strength and depth and volume to the British Empire. If restriction of the Chinese took place, those who are here already would at once raise their price, and thus the very object of the anti-Chinese would be indirectly gained, and we should once more be without domestic help, once more thrown back twenty years upon our own resources. If one could venture on an estimate it would be at the rate of one Chinaman to each family, counting as in Europe each average family as consisting of four persons. Probably, if there were no great railway or other works to be considered, if twenty per cent. of the popula- tion were Chinese, we might get on fairly well. But every one of these would at once on his arrival find remunerative employment.

16. If the domestic servants coming from Europe or other parts of America were the only ones we could obtain, no persons of capital would (if they knew the truth) think of coming to British Columbia. They can get all the comforts and luxuries they may wish in other and cheaper places. They simply would not come-that is come to reside.

17. The answers I have already given to the previous questions suffi- ciently answer this one, except as to this :

18. I do not think at present any restriction on Chinese immigration is necessary or expedient. Time should be given to see whether those at present in the country who are engaged solely on railway works, will not leave the country altogether as soon as the works which drew them hither are concluded. Though possessed of all the qualities I have described, China- men do not make good settlers in the sense of raising up citizens of a free. and progressive country, which must in the course of years aspire to nation- ality however far remote the time. Miscegenation with the race is on any scale impossible. Patriotism is not known among them. In their legal contentions in court among their economies is a remarkable economy of truth. Six witnesses will get up and swear positively and to the point on one side, when six will get up and swear point blank the reverse, con- tradicting every allegation with a circumstance. This may be attributable to two things : our ignorance of the proper mode of binding their con- science by an oath, or our ignorance of their language which prevents our being able to sift out the truth as we could when white witnesess swear directly opposite to each other with respect to the same facts.

A combined effort on the part of 19. As to a combined effort of the people and the legislature to encour -. people and legisla- age white immigration, I do not believe, though most of all to be desired ture to bring in white immigra- tion would not succeed. and encouraged, that such a combination, with the unlimited United States alongside, would succeed to any appreciable extent. The moment this combined effort "furnished an effectual supply of white labor " to the colour at any given time, I cannot possibly believe that it would stay sup-

CREASE

plied. The moment an immigrant " laborer " touches British Columbia he becomes in his own mind a boss (as it is termed) and will do as little manual labor as he can help. I exclude from this consideration all chop- pers, timber-men and the like. They never seem to lose the old time spirit for their work. The axe to them is a handicraft which no white man not born or educated up to the mark, can imitate. So with the regular miner and blaster. He is almost alone in his art; but I speak of the mere laborer. He can get rich land and a homestead for a mere nothing and become a farmer, and in a short time an employer of labor himself, looking out very likely for " the first Chinaman that comes along " whom he may " hoss.', -

20. To the question can white people find now remunerative employment Whites can get and steady work and a provision for old age, I answer, yes, most certainly, plenty of work .. if they do not want it all at once. That is the trouble. The world, the Columbia world, is to him that can work and wait ; and I may add success requires here the same kind of qualities as ensure it anywhere else, sobriety, industry and honesty. Here there are no poor. To men with such qualities success is a mere question of time, especially here. British Columbia with its opportunities, unrivalled climate, regular succession of seasons, and unlimited resources, is a paradise to the poor man.

21. The railway and the opening of the railway lands has already had a Opening of rail- marked effect upon the immigration of settlers to this province. I presume it is within the scope of these enquiries to add that survey should precede cised a marked or as quickly as possible overtake " settlement," and much more informa- effect on white immigration. tion as to what lands in particular are open to settlement should be given to intending settlers. There has been a great stride in that direction under the present government of the province, but it is a difficult thing to do, and certain preparation is required. But these things prepared, a great increase of immigration can well be provided for in British Columbia. There is a very erroneous impression about the agricultural capabilities of British Columbia, or I should say incapabilities. It cannot be called an agricultural country, compared with the level, arable plains of the interior of North America ; but there is good agricultural land enough to support millions of population, but first comers require assistance, British Columbia is so far away from most countries.

22. Instead of being retarded by Chinese immigration, I am fully White immigra- persuaded that white immigration has been assisted by it. I know of retired officers and persons of settled incomes who would not have thought presence of Chinese. of coming here if they had not known that Chinese servants could he had here, though very indifferent compared with those one can obtain in China itself.

23. I do not think the effect produced by the Chinese on the morals of Effect on white the whites has been a beneficial one, for the simple fact that they are heathens, and some quantity, I believe, of the whites are Christians. But whites far more where there are white people of allied habits to the immoral among the Chinese. injurious than Chinese they are more likely to be injurious to their fellow whites than any Chinese, not only from intelligent depravity, but because they have from their language greater facility in communicating the moral virus and ill example to both old and young.

24. No. The proportion of immoral people among the Chinese here is The proportion of not more than among white people similarly situated, where there are no immoral persons Chinese.

way lands and the railway had exer --

tion has been stimulated by the

morals not bene- ficial, but vicious .

not greater among Chinese.

CREASE

White depravity surpasses that of the Chinese.

25. For open wickedness and parade of vice, for the public defence and spread of it in various alluring forms, for the numbers of youths inocu- lated by it, there is no comparison between the two; white vice and depravity are far ahead, more insidious, more alluring, more permanently injurious.

Disease.

26. I have no personal knowledge whatever of the presence of leprosy among the Chinese. Now and then one hears a report to that effect, but in those cases reported upon by English doctors they have denied alto- gether its existence. They have, I believe, some singular and peculiar illnesses among themselves, such as produce wasting away and death, but these do not spread beyond themselves, although said to be almost invari- ably fatal among that people.

Deprecatos any active step to Chinese immi- gration. 27. No. I have not spoken of the legal aspect of the Chinese question, restrict or exclude as that is not before me ; nor have I alluded to the treaties, as these sub- jects will naturally come in their order before the Commission, and are, after all, matter of diplomatic negotiation. But I do as a citizen and a very old, early pioneer of British Columbia, deprecate any active step whatever being taken, since my opinion has been asked-certainly for the present- either to restrict or exclude Chinese immigration into British Columbia. It would not take so much as is generally supposed to drive them entirely out of the country, the effect of which would be simply dis- astrous. I am aware it is a matter even now in serious discussion among some of their leading men here, and these have been advised before taking any active step in that direction to await the result of this Commission. Of its existence and objects they are well aware, and expect its report with an interest they do not affect to conceal, for it will, for good or evil, affect, and that perhaps for a long period, enormous interests-social, financial, and political.

(Gravity of the ·duty which the Commission has to discharge.

HENRY P. PELLEW CREASE.

ONDERDONK. ANDREW ONDERDONK, civil engineer and contractor; eighteen years engaged on railroads; eight years a resident of California and British Columbia ; contractor for sections 60, 61, 62, 63, 92, 93, Canadian Pacific Railway in British Columbia, for Dominion Government ; subsequently contractor for Canadian Pacific Railway Company from Savona's into Eagle Pass, B.C. ; has employed as high as 9,000 men at one time-6,000 Chinese and 3,000 whites, and has studied their habits and adaptation for work, gives the following answers to the questions submitted :-

Chinese immi- „grants laborers in good health, who do not burden public charities, who are indus- trious, sober, law- abiding, true to their contracts, who do not inter- fere with whites ·save in labor market, and who on first coming supplied a felt want.

1. Laborers.

2. Yes.

3. No ; they take good care of themselves.

4. They are industrious, sober, economical, and law-abiding ; they are not drunken, extravagant, or turbulent.

5. Yes, to the letter.

6. No.

ONDERDONK

7. Yes.

8. I do not know.

9. I do not know when the agitation began. Politicians make the chief Agitation chicfly agitation to gain votes from ignorant people. political.

10. No; they live by themselves, and do not associate with, whites to Not injurious to any extent.

health or public peace. Have contributed to development of province.

11. Yes.

12. Yes ; in order to complete the Canadian Pacific Railway alone Chinese still ne- 2,000 more will be required in the coming spring.

13. The development of the country would be retarded and many industries abandoned.

cessary, and for C. P. R. 2,000 more will be required in the spring.

14. For railway work, 2,000 more. The gravel mines will give work to White men cannot make the gravel a large number besides ; white men cannot make these gravel mines pay. mines pay.

15. Owing to the mining, British Columbia will support more Chinamen British Columbia than whites. The presence of Chinamen give much business to whites.

would support more Chinamen than whites.

16. Most of them would have to do their own work or pay exorbitant But for the Chi- rates, which would discourage them from bringing their families into the province.

nese, capitalists would not bring in their families.

17. I am confident that the matter of Chinese immigration will regulate Chinese immi- itself ; that Chinamen will cease to come when they are not in demand.

18. I think it will regulate itself ; but if any action is taken it should A year's notice of be made known a year before going into effect ; and, as any restriction should be given, restrictive action will be experimental, it should be made for a short length of time, and renewed, if found popular, or rescinded if found detrimental.

and any restric- tive policy should be only for a short time.

19. No ; instance mining, and the fisheries, and the railway. I have A combined effort tried to encourage whites to come as well as Chinese. I do not believe whites would do to bring in, in assisted immigration for whites. Those who are good for anything do no good. not need it ; those who do are always a burden to the rest of the whites. Many industries, now giving employment to seventy-five per cent. of Chinese and twenty-five per cent. of whites, would have to be abandoned as non-paying, in a competitive sense, with other countries, if it was not for the Chinese, thus the twenty-five per cent. would loose their occupation.

20. Yes ; the more Chinese the more employment for whites.

21. I believe it has ; but white labor is very scarce-room for many Opening up of more.

22. No; the employment of Chinese has created openings that other- wise would not exist.

23. The influence of Chinese upon the morals of whites cuts no figure one way or the other. It is too insignificant and rare to need mention.

24. The proportion of depraved and immoral Chinamen is smaller than Proportion of in any other class I know of.

Chinese create employment for- whites.

public lands had attracted white immigrants. Chinese have not retarded white immigration.

No influence on morals of whites.

depraved small among Chinamen.

gration would be regulated by de- mand and supply

150

Do not flaunt their vices. 25. No ; they are quiet and retiring at their worst. Ninety-nine per cent. of the Chinese here are industrious and steady.

26. No ; I have never seen a single case of leprosy in some 6,000 that I knew individually.

27. No ; except to say that any radical or sudden restriction will close down many industries and seriously injure the prosperity of British Columbia.

ANDREW ONDERDONK.

VICTORIA, B.C., August 9th, 1884.

WHARTON. EMILY WHARTON, examined :

Q. What is your name ?- A. Emily Wharton.

Q. What age are you ?-- A. I am twenty years of age.

Q. How long have you been an opium-smoker ? - A. About four years.

Q. Did you learn to smoke opium in Victoria ?-- A. No ; I learned in San Francisco.

Q. Why did you commence to smoke opium ! - A. Why do people commence to drink ? Trouble, I suppose, led me to smoke. I think it is better than drink. People who smoke opium do not kick up rows; they injure no one but themselves, and I do not think they injure themselves very much. I know opium-smokers who are sixty-five and seventy years of age. There is a man over there who has smoked opium for thirty years.

Q. Have you read De Quincy's Opium Eater ?- A. I have.

Q. Had that book anything to do with leading you to become an opium-smoker ? A. No : I was an opium-smoker before I read his book. I believe he has drawn more on his imagination than on experience.

Q. Do you realize the pleasures and visions he dilates on ?- A. No ; nor I believe does any opium-smoker. I believe De Quincy's book is a pack of lies.

Q. If it does not afford you any such pleasure as that author describes, why do you smoke ?- A. Because I must; I could not live without it. I smoke partly because of the quiet enjoyment it gives, but mainly to escape from the horrors which would ensue did I not smoke. To be twenty- four hours without smoking is to suffer worse tortures than the lost.

Q. But does not the smoking make you wretched, just as drinking would ?-- A. No; I require about twelve pipes, then I fall into a state of somnolence and complete rest. When I awake I feel all right, and can attend to fixing-up the house. I am brisk, and can work as well as any- body else. I do not feel sick or nervous, neither have I the inclination to smoke more opium.

Q. Then why do you return to the use of the drug ?- A. Ah! that's it ; there is a time when my hands fail me; tears fall from my eyes ; I am ready to sink ; then I come here and for a few bits have a smoke

WHARTON

which sets me right. There is too much nonsense talked about opium- smoking. Life without it would be unendurable for me. I am in excellent health; but, I suppose, every one has their own troubles, and I have mine.

Q. I do not want to be offensive, but are you what is called a fast Opium-smokers. woman ?- A. I am. But you would be greatly mistaken if you imagined that all the women who come here to smoke are of that character. In San Francisco I have known some of the first people visit opium houses, .and many respectable people do the same here.

Q. Are women of your class generally addicted to opium-smoking ?- Prostitutes more A. No ; they are more addicted to drink, and drink does them far more than opium. harm. Drink excites passion, whereas this allays it ; and when a fast woman drinks she goes to ruin pretty quick.

addicted to drink

ced any rudeness from Chinamen in

Q. You have for four years been accustomed to go to opium dens such Never experien- as this, how have you been treated by the Chinamen whom you have met in such places ?- A. They never interfered with me in the least. Wak- an opium den. ing or sleeping, one aet of rudeness from a Chinaman I have never experi- enced. In that respect they are far superior to white men. Unless you speak to them they will not even speak to you ; and, indeed, after the first whiff of the opium you have no desire to speak. You rather resent having to speak or being spoken to ; and when you want the smoke the desire to get your pipe ready is far too earnest a business to allow of any desire for idle talk. But I have known Chinamen who were not opium-smokers, and I believe they are far more certain not to offend or molest a woman than white men, especially white men with a glass in.

Q. You express yourself well, you have been well educated ?- A. Yes ; I was well educated, but that is neither here nor there now. We will not go into that. Of course I have not given you my real name.

Q. Have you anything else to add bearing on opium-smoking in con- If opium joints nection with the Chinese here in Victoria ?-- A. No; I will say this, whiskey saloons are not licensed though : that if opium houses were licensed as drinking saloons are one should be closed. need not have to come into such holes as this to smoke. There would be nice rooms with nice couches, and the degradation would be mitigated. At all events I think the government that will not license an opium saloon should shut up public houses and hotels where they sell vitriol for whiskey and brandy, and where men kill themselves with a certainty and a rapidity beyond the power of opium.

Q. Is there anything else ?- No.

VICTORIA, B.C., October 18th, 1884.

Major L. T. DUPONT, District Inspector for the Inland Revenue District DUPONT. of British Columbia, answers certain questions as follows :-

SIR,-In accordance with the request in your letter of the 27th ultimo, I beg leave to send you herewith a return of the excise duty collected from Chinese cigar manufacturers in this city for year ended 30th June last and the first quarter of the current fiscal year.

For purposes of comparison, I give you also the amount paid by white «cigar makers for the same periods.

I beg to state in connection with this subject that the Chinese are very methodical and regular in their dealings with the department, submissive to regulations and prompt in making their returns paying their duties.

I enclose you also the report of the minister of mines for this province, laid before the local legislature at its last session, as requested in your letter.

In the tabular statement at the commencement of this report it is. shown that out of the total of 1,965 men employed in mining for gold in this province in the year ending 31st December, 1883, 1,458 were Chinese, 500 were whites, and seven Indians.

By far the larger number of claims in the province are owned and worked by Chinese, their more frugal habits, their greater industry, and more moderate expectations of reward, making profitable to them claims that the white miners regard as not having sufficient attraction.

Indeed in many cases the Chinese are working claims that white miners have abandoned, and obtaining from them very good wages.

Thus, but for the Chinese, the production of gold in this country would not reach nearly the sum shown.

The Chinese miner, although more frugal in his habits than the white- miner, has in many items to incur exactly the same expenditure as the white miner. His picks and shovels, axes and saws, wear out equally with the white miner's. His horses and harnesses, either to hire or own, cost him as much ; and man for man he pays as much for travelling either by stage, railway or steamer. Nails and other hardware are as dear to him, and as necessary in building flumes, or wing-dams, or in other ways. In hydraulic mining he needs the same description and quantity of hose. He wears the same rubber boots. He has to pay the same rates for transportation or teaming of his supplies and groceries from the coast, and it is well known that the Chinese miner does not stint himself either in quantity or quality of food. In no way does the Chinese miner interfere. with the privilege of the white miner to prospect as energetically as he may please for gold. The country is open to all, and whatever favor or assistance is given is to the white miner, certainly not to the Chinese. A large amount of profit accrues to the white community from Chinese mining ; certain articles needed by the Chinese miner being manufactured by white labor, and all steamboat and stage lines travelled over being owned by white companies.

I have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient servant,

NICHOLAS FLOOD DAVIN, Esq., Secretary of Chinese Commission, Ottawa.

STATEMENT of revenue collected from Chinese manufacturers in British Columbia, for the fiscal year ending the 30th June, 1884, and for- three months ending 30th September, 1884 :

FISCAL YEAR ENDING 30th JUNE, 1884.

Duty on cigars

$1,581.75 150.00

Licenses. ..

$1,731.75

DUPONT

THREE MONTHS ENDING 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1884.

Duty on cigars $ 529.53

Licenses. .

150.00

$ 679.53

$679.53 for three months ending 30th September, 1884.

STATEMENT of excise revenue received from European cigar manufacturers,

from European manufacturers for . above periods $5,982.70.

Revenue received for the fiscal year commencing 1st July, 1883, and ending 30th June, 1884, and for the three months commencing Ist July and ending 30th September, 1884 :

REVENUE FROM IST JULY, 1883, ENDING 30TH JUNE, 1884.

Duty on cigars

$5,682.70

Licenses. .

300.00

$5,982.70

THREE MONTHS ENDING 30TH SEPTEMBER, 1884.

Duty on cigars

$1,252.12

Licenses. .

300.00

$1,552.12

$1,552.12.

H. N. GOOD, Collector of Inland Revenue.

Victoria, B.C., 14th October, 1884.

STATEMENTS PUT IN.

Statement of the Hon. M. W. T. DRAKE, President of the Council, DRAKE. British Columbia :

I have been a resident in British Columbia since 1859, practicing my Before 1870 ab- profession as barrister and solicitor. The Chinese did not appear in any labor. sorbed all light large number until after 1870, but even before that time they gradually absorbed all the light labor which used to be done by white people. They first invaded the washing interests and gradually ousted the women who did this work; then they absorbed the market-garden work, and are now the sole suppliers of garden produce ; and in all the various industries which require light work they have driven all competitors from the field. The effect of this is that white people will not come to compete with the Whites will not Chinese, and one consequence is that all persons requiring house-work done come to compete with Chinese. are driven to employ Chinese at extravagant wages. $25 to $30 a month Extravagant rates- is the ordinary rate of wages, and they are so well organized that if any paid Chinesc. attempt is made to reduce the wages it is impossible to obtain a servant. They will not compete against each other, and the ordinary law governing demand and supply is entirely evaded by a higher law of compulsion. If any one attempts to act for himself in this direction, the general body have means at their disposal to compel obedience to their rules. False charges are trumped up against the offender, or his fears are worked upon so that they dare not disobey their secret rulers.

I have had a very large experience in Chinese cases, especially in criminal cases, and I find that where Chinese alone are concerned a criminals.

Hard to obtain convictions where Chinese are the

conviction is hardly ever obtained. The calendar of convictions gives no criterion of the number of offences. Several murders have been committed and no clue to the perpetrators The administration of justice obtains no assistance whatever from the Chinese themselves ; if, however, the question is one between Chinese and white persons, the Chinese strain every nerve to obtain a conviction, and are utterly indifferent whether the charge is brought against the real criminal or some other white person.

The Chinese are utterly unacquainted with truth, and it is a universal comment on their evidence that you cannot believe anything they say. They shelter themselves under their ignorance of the English language so that no cross-examination can reach them, and it is generally believed that the interpreters guide the evidence. In one case that came before me, a charge of murder was preferred against a Chinese, and he was arrested. The murder was committed at Seattle, and the presence of the prisoner distinctly sworn to. I was, however, in a position to prove that the prisoner was on his way from San Francisco to Victoria at the time of the alleged offence, and after producing that evidence the prosecutors who were applying for extradition abandoned further proceedings, but compelled the prisoner's friends to pay $250 for expenses, stating if they did not do so they would have him arrested on some other charge. The reason I after discovered was that the prisoner had refused to pay a sum to a secret society which exists among them. They are governed by laws of their own entirely uncontrolled by the laws of the country where they reside.

The Chinese never pay any taxes connected with estates of deceased Chinese, and it is impossible to discover anything connected with their property. The number of Chinese who entirely evade taxation is very large, so much so that I doubt if above five per cent. of the laboring classes pay any tax at all. They arrive here in a state of abject poverty, and in that condition a very large number remain to the end of time.

Prostitution of the most flagrant character is carried on wherever a few men are collected. The women are slaves and sold by their importers at prices varying from $300 to $600. Cases connected with the system have frequently been brought before the court, and in no case have, I think; the true facts ever been elicited. The complaint of inveighling boys into these dens of infamy, and the diceases which are there caught, are numerous and painful.

The Chinese are not settlers in any sense of the word ; they are no benefit to the country as settlers ; they tend to exclude a more valuable population, and even where they are engaged in numbers the employers would prefer white people but cannot get them. The numbers that are in the province it is very difficult to estimate, as the leading merchants do not wish the numbers to be known, but there can be very few short of 18,000. It is not expected that those present should be driven away, but it is hoped that such restrictive legislation will be passed as to prevent their influx. There are sufficient numbers here to fulfil all the requirements of labor for years to come, and if restriction is granted we shall find that white labor will become more plentiful at once.

KNIGHTS OF LABOR

Statement of Knights of Labor L. A. No. 3,017, Nanaimo, B. C :

British Columbia has been well described as a land of almost limitless Wealth of British resources ; but few countries in the whole world have been so favored Columbia. by nature, certainly no other portion of the Dominion. Though, possibly, possessing a smaller area of agricultural land than some of the other provinces, the extreme fertility of the soil compensates for this, while her other advantages throw everything else into the shade. The climate is unrivalled ; there are great forests of the finest timber ; the fisheries furnish an exhaustless source of wealth. Gold has been found in large quantities, and many other useful and valuable metals are known to occur. Indeed, from the many valuable discoveries already made, and constantly being made, it is a certainty that the metalliferous deposits are extremely rich and very extensive. In addition to all those advantages the province possesses a right royal dower in her vast stores of coal and iron, which render her well fitted to become the seat of great manufacturing indus- tries. Geographically the province is also well situated for trade, and, with her numerous splendid harbors, is in a commanding position for carrying on an extended foreign commerce. Taken all in all British Columbia is a grand province, a most valuable addition to the Dominion.

No one of the other provinces has all the means within herself, as she No other province has so many of the means within has, of becoming a rich and populous nation, with large agricultural, mining, manufacturing and commercial industries. Surely then, it should herself of becom- be the aim, as it is the manifest duty, of all Canadian statesmen to attach ing a nation. this grand province to the Dominion in the firmest manner possible. They should seek to develop her immense resources in such a manner as will conduce to the best interests of the whole nation. They should Lands should be settled with an endeavor to settle her lands with an intelligent, independent people, intelligent patrio- imbued with the spirit of patriotism, and bound to their brethren in the tic people. other provinces by the sympathetic ties which always exist between those who are akin in blood, who speak a common language, who have the same manners and customs, who have been trained under the same laws, institutions, rules, and usages, and who are animated by the same hopes, aims, and aspirations. Such a people would be of incalculable service in eradicating those prevalent, narrow, sectional feelings, and local jealousies, born of long-continued isolation and neglect, and in infusing and spreading a wide, healthy, national sentiment, and an abiding faith This would deve- lop a true natio- in the resources and destinies of the great Dominion, without which nal spirit. Canada can never become a great nation, united and powerful.

That the Chinese are not such a people it hardly requires argument to Chinese not only prove. All who have ever come into close contact with them are satisfied dangerous. undesirable but that they are not only a most undesirable but a positively dangerous class to any country having free popular institutions. The great Australasian colonies recognized the danger and enacted laws to restrict their coming, while our nearest neighbors the United States have been forced to prohi- bit their entry into that great country ; and our own experience confirms that of others and warns us of the dangers of allowing them to come to our :shores.

They have no conception of a popular government : by the people, of the They have no people, and for the people, and consequently are not fitted to enter into our constitutional conception of government. political life ; nor do they seem desirous of doing so, for, except in "very rare cases, they never attempt to assimilate with us ; nor do they ever voluntarily conform to our laws, rules and usages, but remain under all circumstances a distinct and separate people, having distinct and separate iams, taking no part in our social or political life, and having no sympathy ni our higher aims and objects.

KNIGHTS OF LABOR

They contribute but little to the revenues of the country, and that little is always difficult and expensive to collect, as they evade the payment of taxes in all possible ways. Did they come as settlers, and help to build up the country, there possibly might not be so much objection to them ; but it is well known they only come to enrich themselves, without any thought of staying. They are simply parasites preying upon our resources, and draining the country of the natural wealth which should go to enrich it, and serve to still further develop it, but which all goes to their native land, from whence comes their chief supplies of food and clothing, and to which they invariably return dead or alive. They have no ties to bind them to this land, for they come without wives or families, and rarely make permanent investments, holding their property in such a form as can be easily realized upon, or carried with them. At least such is our experience : for out of 1,000 Chinese in this district only three or four have wives, while not one has made a permanent investment, thus proving the temporary nature of their residence. They live, generally, in wretched hovels, dark, ill-ventilated, filthy, and unwholsome, and crowded together- in such numbers as must utterly preclude all ideas of comfort, morality, or even decency, while from the total absence of all sanitary arrangements, their quarters are an abomination to the eyes and nostrils and a constant source of danger to the health and life of the community.

Weighty though the above may be, we have other and higher reasons for desiring to exclude Chinese labor. All history proves that a free, manly, intelligent, and contented laboring population, is the foundation and the source of the prosperity of any and every nation, and essential. to the stability of free, popular institutions. No nation has ever yet become or remained free and powerful, which degraded its labor or sought to deprive its workers of a just share in the produce of their toil. Now, Chinese labor is confessedly of a low, degraded, and servile type, the inevitable result of whose employment in competition with free white. labor is to lower and degrade the latter without any appreciable elevation of the former. Their standard of living is reduced to the lowest possible point, and, being without family ties, or any of those institutions which are essential to the existence and progress of our civilization, they are enabled to not only live but to grow rich on wages far below the lowest minimum at which we can possibly exist. They are thus fitted to become all too dangerous competitors in the labor market, while their docile servility, the natural outcome of centuries of grinding poverty and humble submission to a most oppressive system of government, renders them doubly dangerous as the willing tools whereby grasping and tyrannical employers grind down all labor to the lowest living point.

It is for this latter reason, chiefly, that we object to the Chinese, not altogether because they accept lower wages. In many pursuits, in coal mining especially, Chinese labor is little, if any, cheaper than white labor : for while the individuals receive less the collective amount paid is little, if any, less than white labor would receive, while by the latter the work is almost invariably better and quicker done. But white men demand the treatment of rational beings, while Chinese are content to be treated like beasts of burden, consequently they are preferred by all who seek to tyrannize over their fellows, or who are resolved to keep together a great fortune, regardless of how their country prospers.

Had our provincial legislature adopted in the past a wise, liberal, statesmanlike policy, instead of a narrow, sectional one, the national protective policy of the Dominion would have been productive of great results in this province. Our wonderful natural resources would have

KNIGHTS OF LABOR

been more fully developed than they now are, and we would not now be suffering so severely from the keen competition of Chinese labor. We should have had the chance, at least, of becoming ourselves emyloyers of labor, and in any case there would have been a great many collieries in full operation, and the coal industry would have been so extensive as to compel the creation of a home maket by the establishment of manu- facturing industries.

All this has been prevented by the absurdly stupid policy of our provincial legislature, aided by the grasping ambition of individuals and the neglect of the Dominion. For twelve long years a very large, and admittedly the best, portion of the coal lands of the province has been locked up, so that no person could obtain a single acre on any pretence. Thus all progress was retarded, for the uncertainty resulting from this foolish policy prevented other portions of our coal fields being thoroughly and systematically prospected, though enough has been done to show that the most valuable coal seams are within the railway reserve. And now, by one crowning act of blundering stupidity, all hope of a rapid, sound development of our resources taking place, has been forever extinguished. There is now no hope of a number of small, independent companies being formed to work our mines, and a consequent healthy competition arising, for by the terms of the infamous Settlement Act all the immensely valuable Settlement Act coal lands contained within the vast railway reserve has been handed over to one company, the principal shareholder in which commenced but a few years ago, without a dollar, to develop a few acres of coal land, which the then favorable laws of the province allowed him to acquire. At that time the price of producing and shipping the coal was much higher than now, while the price obtained was if anything lower. Yet so large have been the profits that he has accumulated a princely fortune, and has become all powerful in the province, his influence pervading every part of our provincial government, overshadowing our provincial legislature, and threatening its very existence.

He is, outside of this grant, the largest coal owner in the province, and the largest employer of Chinese labor, next to the great railway company. He has avowed his belief in and determination to employ Chinese in every possible way, and his associates are like-minded with himself ; therefore it is reasonable to suppose that the Island Railway will be .constructed chiefly by Chinese. Thus it will prove of small benefit to white labor, as it will be of little practical value when finished. This company is thus placed beyond the reach of all competition. While we must for ever remain in the subordinate position of employees, must we likewise be forever compelled to endure the crushing competition of a race of degraded Asiatics, who are practically serfs ?

No part of Vancouver Island is better suited than Nanaimo to become Nanaimo well a large town, the site of great manufacturing industries. It is the centre ·of an extensive coal field, and surrounded by a large area of first-class agricultural land. The harbor is a magnificient one, while the expen- diture of a comparatively small sum would give us the largest dry-dock in the world. Our trade relations with foreign countries renders the district peculiarly suited for the establishment of woolen manufactories, sugar refineries, and many other industries, while iron works could be esta- blished, either here or at Comox, as abundance of the finest ore is close at hand. Yet, by that absurd sectional policy which has been the curse of the country, no advantage has been taken of the great natural facilities ; and instead of being a large thriving town, with a prosperous and con- tented population, Nanaimo remains to-day a comparatively small lan-

suited to become a great manu- facturing centre.

KNIGHTS OF LABOR

guishing village, her lands unsettled, her resources only partially developed, and her sparse population largely composed of Chinese.

Chinese taking the place of white men.

And these latter are increasing very rapidly, taking up the places of white men. They are thus not only preventing any rapid increase of the white population, but are slowly, yet none the less surely, driving the more intelligent of our workers out of the country and lowering the status of all who remain.

The returns of the provincial revenue tax furnish a ready, if not very accurate, means of comparing the rapid increase of the Chinese with the. slower increase of the white population. The following are the figures for the last four years, as taken from the official records :-

In 1881 226 Chinese and 666 Whites paid the tax.

1882 334

807

1883 459

845

“

66

The returns for the present year are only up to July. Now, it is well known that the Chinese immigration has increased very largely during the last few months, so that the increase for this year must be very large. The figures are, however, sufficiently alarming, showing, as they do, that the white population has only increased fifty per cent., while the Chinese have increased nearly 200 per cent. But when we reflect that those figures do not, by any means, show us the full extent of their encroach- ment, owing to the extreme difficulty of collecting any tax from them, we must be certain that there is a very large number unaccounted for. As a matter of fact it is known that there are, at least, 1,000 to 1,200 Chinese in the district.

Of these fully one-half are employed in and about the mines, and year . by year they are being so employed in such ever-increasing numbers as renders it apparent that the time is not far distant when the bulk of our mining population will be Chinese. Already, even, they outnumber the whites at the Wellington Collieries by nearly 100, the numbers being. about 450 Chinese to a little over 300 whites (possibly there might be 350 whites). Of the former quite a number are still employed digging coal in spite of Mr. Dunsmuir's assurance that they would not be so. employed. In the other collieries only one-fourth of the total number employed are Chinese. The Vancouver Coal Company, employing 600 men, have 150 Chinese ; the East Wellington Coal Company, employing about fifty inen, have twelve or thirteen Chinese. It is thus clear that they are not absolutely necessary to the working of our coal mines. Indeed the fact is freely admitted that they might be dispensed with altogether. In the Wellington, and to a certain extent in the other collieries, they monopolize every employment, save the digging and running the machinery.

Thus our boys have very little chance to be employed in the mines, while out of them nearly every other calling, where they might find profitable employment, is filled by the ubiquitous heathen. In consequence our boys grow up to near manhood without an opportunity to earn any part of their living, such as they might have were there no Chinese, and such as boys have in other parts of the world. Our girls, too, cannot find remunerative employment, from the fact that the Chinese are largely employed as domestics. Thus every industry, every source of employment, is being gradually filled by the yellow serfs. A healthy public sentiment is well nigh impossible, and there will soon be no resource left us but to fly from evils we cannot successfully combat.

We, therefore, appeal to the Dominion to come to our rescue before it is.

66

1884 708 66 985

KNIGHTS OF LABOR

too late, before our country be overrun and our civilization buried beneath the advancing tide of Mongolian immigration, or we be compelled to take up arms to preserve ourselves and those liberties dearer than life itself.

We do not in any way exaggerate the terrors of this great cancer on our Deponents know social, industrial, and political system. Living amongst the Chinese, com- whereof they speak. pelled by the strongest of all means of coercive circumstances, over which we have no control, to labor with them and in opposition to them, we have ample opportunity of studying their habits and acquiring a practical experience of the crushing nature of the competition. We number the most considerable, as we certainly are the most influential, portion of the workmen of the district, and knowing whereof we speak our opinions are entitled to some weight and our wishes to some consideration.

Many of us have invested the savings of years of hard toil in the district ; The Chinese com- our interests are therefore here. We must support such institutions as petition renders it nearly impos- sible for the white laborer to live befits a civilized people. We must live like rational beings and take an intelligent interest in the concerns of our country, and we must maintain the life of a good and educate our families in such a style as will enable them to take our and useful citizen. places when we are dust and ashes. To do this, it is necessary that we obtain a fair share of the wealth our labor produces ; and this is becoming more and more impossible in the face of this degrading Chinese competi- tion. Our best, most intelligent, men are leaving us. Many have already gone, more are preparing to leave ; so that unless the plague be speedily stayed, a great nation will be strangled in its birth, and in a few years there will only remain a few immensely wealthy men and a poor, servile, slavish people, chiefly Chinese.

We do not, therefore, ask as a favor, we demand as a right, that the Further Chinese further immigration of Chinese be at once stopped. We demand it in the immigration name of justice. It is unjust to place a few individuals, already too wealthy, in possession of nearly all the natural resources of the country, and thus beyond the reach of all competition, and at the same time expose us who are the producers of wealth and the source of all prosperity to the killing competition of a degraded race who are practically slaves ! As British Columbians we demand it as our right. We did not surrender every principle of self-government when we entered the Dominion, and we have repeatedly, through our representatives, intimated the manner in which we wished to deal with this giant evil.

As Canadians, we demand it in the name of that grand national sentiment National senti- which it should be the aim of all true Canadians to foster and encourage. ment demands this. No universal national feeling can arise or exist in any country which allows its labor to become degraded.

We demand it as of vital necessity to the stability of those free, popular institutions which our fathers poured out their blood to wrest from tyrants, and which it is our bounden duty to maintain, and hand down a precious inheritance to our children. The continuance of such institutions is not possible where a few individuals are allowed to become supreme by reason of their great wealth, while the people grow poorer and poorer. Decay and death is the inevitable doom of every state " Where wealth accu- mulates and men decay." As nationalists, who desire to see Canada become a great nation, united and powerful; as workmen, on whom the prosperity of that nation depends, on every principle of reason and jus- tice, on every principle of sound political economy, we demand that the further progress of this gigantic evil be at once arrested ; that the full benefits of the great national policy of the Dominion of Canada be extended to us, and that we be protected from this terribly great Chi- nese competition, even as the capitalists have been protected.

must be stopped.

Protection for labor as well as capital needed.

KNIGHTS OF LABOR

Do not suppose that this matter can be longer delayed. While we suffer under such a great wrong it is impossible that we can remain peaceable or contented. We warn you that the agitation upon this vital question is widespread and growing ; that the great mass of the people of British Columbia is burning with deep resentment for the continued neglect to deal with this matter. The longer it is delayed the worse it will be to deal with, and the deeper will grow the resentment of the people, and the stronger the determination to have it dealt with. We sincerely hope that the Dominion Government will attend to it at once, and that in the ensuing session of Parliament a law will be enacted that will meet the wishes of the people and settle the matter in an effectual manner, once and all.

Signed, on behalf of the assembly,

-

T. R. JONES, Master Workman.

JAMES YOUNG, Recording Secretary.

VICTORIA, B.C., August 14th, 1884.

Statement of JOHN A. BRADLEY :

As a working man and head of a family I beg to enter my protest against any further influx of Chinese.

1. As to their coming. They do not come like any other class of peo- ple. They are brought here under contract to work a number of years, and are virtually slaves during that term. They are at the will of their bosses, and if they disobey orders get killed. I know this. Their women are nearly all brought here for purposes of prostitution.

2. Their competing with white labor. It is impossible for any white man or woman to compete with them in any work they adapt themselves to. Their expenditure for food, clothing, and living, is so far below that of the white race that it would take an education of hundreds of years grada- tion to bring Europeans down to their level.

3. Their influence, morally and socially. Large numbers being engaged as domestic servants, and in the care of children, has a most corrupting influence on the youth of both sexes, especially girls. If parents only knew one-tenth of the pernicious and filthy ideas imparted by Chinese servants to the youth in their households, they would be excluded from every house. As cooks they are failures, and in this respect they inflict untold misery on the community.

4. General objections. Fearing to be tedious I will not attempt anything like a complete catalogue of reasons why the Chinese are undesirable. Ī have lived in Australia from 1856 to 1870, and have travelled over Tas- mania, South Australia, Victoria, New South Wales, Queensland and all States of the U. S. of New Zealand, and found Chinamen everywhere, and everywhere the same dislike against them. I have lived in the Sandwich Islands where Chinese are in large numbers, and they are as universally hated there as any place I have been in, although their labor is of great value to the

BRADLEY

planters. I have been on this coast since 1870, and have visited California, Nevada, Arizona, Old and New Mexico, and Central America, and have seen Chinese every place I have been, and have heard them objected to by all classes of people in these countries. " If your mind dislike anything obey it." The mind of man everywhere I have been dislikes this race. Why is this ? Are the instincts of millions of men in various parts of the world, under every conceivable opposing conditions and interests, at fault ? You ask men to give their reasons why the Chinese are objectionable ? There is an inner consciousness that impels men to the belief that these men should not come here, that is as potent as the belief in a Supreme Being. How many men could go before you and explain why they believe in a God ? Men who employ Chinese are opposed to their coming. My experi- Their labor not ence teaches me their labor is not cheap labor. You may ask : " If so, why cheap labor. are they employed ?" The reason is, for expediency. Contractors employ them because they give less trouble about pay, food, or lodging than white men. One can hire about 500 or more to work, and have only to treat with one man as boss, and never be troubled with individual grievances as to pay or otherwise. Their system enables these bosses to give sixty or ninety days credit or time on contracts for labor this. It is said in their favor that they are law-abiding, not addicted to drink, etc., etc. This is not so. They defy and despise our laws. They make their own laws. They are constantly smuggling in defiance of law. They are, many of them, habitual drinkers, but drink does not affect them as it does Europeans. They only get stupidly drunk, like animals when intoxicated. A man must have brains to get hilariously tipsy and noisy under the influence of strong drink. They have introduced leprosy on this coast, and many white persons are now afflicted with this terrible disease. The youth of the coast are being corrupted and depraved by these people. The gross clasps of a lascivious Chinawoman can be procured for fifty cents or less. Hundreds of men and women are now irredeemably lost by the vice of opium-smoking, and the habit is on the increase. In Opium-smoking. all sincerity, gentlemen, believe me that there must be some soundness in the judgment of so many thinking and learned men who oppose the coming of Chinese to this country, as well as in the almost universal voice of the masses of the people. That voice most unmistakably says, the law allowing them to come to this country must be amended or ended.

White men cannot do Not law-abiding ; they drink, but drink does not affect them as it does whites.

JOHN A. BRADLEY.

Statement by the Hon. HUANG SIC CHEN of the Chinese consulate, San HUANG SIC Francisco :-

CHEN.

I have the honor to submit for the information of the honorable the Commissioners appointed to enquire into the Chinese question, a series of statistics (see Appendix C) relating to the Chinese trade and commerce in British Columbia.

I also submit for their consideration a few remarks which I hope may be as interesting, as I trust they may be instrumental in removing the unjust prejudice exhibited by certain persons against the Chinese domiciled in this province.

The Chinese merchants and laborers are chiefly composed of the natives Chinese immi- of the various villages of Canton. They depart from Hong Kong direct for British Columbia or via San Francisco, paying as passage money and outfit from villages about $70 per head.

grants laborers and merchants

of Quang Tung.

11

HUANG SIC CHEN

The charge brought against the Chinese immigrants, who arrive in Bri- tish Columbia, that they are bought and sold as slaves, is not authentic. No Chinaman is permitted to leave China unless he does so voluntarily .. The Chinese are employed and hired in the same way that the Englishman, American, Frenchman or German, is employed and hired. There is no such thing as slavery in China and never has been as far as I know.

It will be found upon enquiry that the presence of Chinese in this pro- vince is not only not an injury, but a positive benefit, in that they have cheapened labor and the products of labor, and it is a fact well known to manufacturers, merchants and others, that many industries essential to the progress and welfare of this province, would not, and could not, have been developed successfully had it not been for the presence and the aid of the Chinese.

I have been told that one of the main inducements offered by the local legislature to the Dominion Government to build the Canadian Pacific Railway, was the certainty of getting the China trade from San Francisco to Esquimalt, to cross the transcontinental railway to Canada.

I am curious to know how this can be done, if, by hostile and restrictive enactments, and an apparently innocent absence of all moral and interna- tional obligations, the people of this province are determined to drive it away.

The charge of immorality alleged against the Chinese by ill-informed persons is a gross misrepresentation.

The history of the Chinese people, and the evidence of travellers like Count Lzchenyi and Mr. Colquhoun, proves that the Chinese are among the most moral people in the world. A comparison with other national- ities in British Columbia will show that, in proportion to numbers, my countrymen will lose nothing on the score of morality.

There are upwards of 9,000 adult Chinamen in this province. I have ascertained that the number of Chinese prostitutes is under seventy. I venture to remark that it would be difficult to show, if this is a test of morality, anything better in any country. Of course in saying this you will observe that I am not defending prostitution ; I am only defending my countrymen against the unfounded charge of immorality. One of the most striking features in the character of the Chinese is the easy way in which they adapt themselves to circumstances.

The commercial relations of England, America and other foreign coun- tries is full of significant proof to this effect : for many years after the English and other Europeans had succeeded in forcing commercial rela- tions with China, the balance of trade was heavily against the Chinese ; they sold us their linen, cutlery, opium and tobacco, and in payment took our silver. They bought in return only a very small quantity of tea and silk, and as a consequence a considerable amount of specie left China every year not to return. So unequal were the conditions of trade that, for many years, our commercial relations assumed the appearance of a calamity. But we submitted with patience and equanimity, trusting to time and fair dealing to adjust arrangements which appeared to be abso- lutely intolerable.

It is unjust in principle for Europeans to insist upon the right of un- restricted commercial relations with China, and at the same time to enforce unjust and unequal restrictions upon Chinese merchants and laborers. The Chinese are charged with the habit of opium-smoking, and this habit is said to be demoralizing. If this charge is true, who is to blame : the Chinese who use the vile drug, or the English who introduced it and forced the trade upon us in defiance of the repeated protests of the

HUANG SIC CHEN

Chinese government ? I am well aware that the revenue of India is bene- fited by opium to the extent of upwards of eight millions annually ; on Opium. the other hand the amount the Chinese government derive from this traffic does not exceed one million sterling. It is known that, without this income, the British Government in India would have some difficulty in carrying on their affairs of state. I think it will hardly be disputed that, in this difference, there lies a very substantial grievance, a grievance which sinks the imaginary complaints of British Columbians into utter insignificance. You will not, I feel sure, deem it irrelevant if I repeat the .opinion of an eminent writer well acquainted with our habits and customs. In writing of my countrymen, he says :

"They toil on in their steady and persistent fashion, keeping their Chinese toil with families from want and enriching the country by their labor. They steadiness and perseverance. have all the virtues necessary not merely to success in life, but also to the preservation of society. Their sobriety, morality, and good temper with Resourcefulness. one another are not less remarkable than their patience, resolution, and of Chinese character. fertility of resource in every pursuit of daily life, whether as the tiller of the fields, or as the laborer in the crowded city. As a merchant, mechanic or seafarer, they alike show the same extraordinary tenacity of purpose and powers of endurance."

These I respectfully submit are qualifications essential to the develop- ment of new countries, as well as the stability of old ones.

My countrymen, under circumstances different from any they have previously experienced, in British Columbia as elsewhere, have come into competition with many races ; and I can affirm that they have generally conducted themselves orderly and peaceably, and, in the face of a series of reckless misrepresentations and dastardly illusage, have borne them- selves as temperate and law-abiding citizens.

In conclusion, I think I can with confidence fairly lodge the claim of the Chinese to that measure of justice and consideration which Canada and the great English people accord to other nations.

HUANG SIC CHEN.

VICTORIA, B.C., 21st August, 1884.

Statement of GILBERT MALCOLM SPROAT :

SPROAT.

As the state of my health at present does not permit me to attend the meetings of the Chinese Commission, I avail myself of the opportunity, which the public invitation of the Commissioners affords, to write a page or two on the general question of Chinese immigration. Perhaps, under the circumstances, it is proper to state that it is twenty-five years since I came to this country. I have been a merchant for twenty years, and a large Twenty-five years employer of labor. For several years I was Agent-General for the province in the country. in England. As Indian Reserve Commissioner and government explorer, it has been my duty to examine thoroughly almost all the settled portions of the province between the Rocky Mountains and the west coast of Van- couver Island. I have compiled many hand-books describing the province, and wrote, among other things, an essay on India and China to which the first prize of $1,000 was awarded by the Governors of Madras and Bombay, and the Secretary of the India Office, London, who acted as judges. The late Sir Bartle Frere informed me that, among the many competitors for this prize, there were sixteen highly educated Chinamen.

You are no doubt aware that the Chinese ideal is to make all their people alike, and that they have succeeded, with the result that all progress in China has long ago stopped. It is because foreigners deviate from the adopted type that the Chinese regard them as barbarians or monstrosities, hating all of them, and, particularly, the western nations, with a hate of which we can hardly form a conception. This stationariness of the people in China, and the persistent peculiarities of their social organization and national character, would make their description a comparatively easy task, were it not for the difficulty of understanding a people so different from ourselves, and the lack of opportunities for including within our view any but small detached portions of the vast population. If the eye could embrace a sufficiently extensive surface of human life and human ways in China, a competent observer could speak more positively about the Chinese people than is possible respecting people in Europe, where indivi- duals and classes in the different nations are extremely unlike one another. But this wide observation has not been possible owing to various reasons, hence accounts of the Chinese people written by foreigners long resident in China vary much, and those who know most by study and the exercise of an educated judgment are the most diffident in expressing positive opinions. Still there are broad facts which are appreciable by ordinary observers, and among these some which bear so directly on the question now being investigated by the Commission that it may be worth while to mention them.

China has a peculiar and apparently indigenous civilization, remarkable in many respects, but the country exhibits proof of what indeed has been noticed also, in a less degree, among western nations, namely that, in the world-history of industry, civilization sometimes establishes in the long run, a species of industrial serfdom not less stringent than has been established in pre-civilized eras, or, afterwards, by such causes as feuda- litism or militarism.

Speaking generally, and after due allowance for local peculiarities and exceptional social conditions, having their rise in topographical, climatic and historic facts, it is not an exaggeration to say that, in the Chinese state, there are an enormous mass of helots at the foot, and bureaucrats, or rather, pedantocrats at the top, all going in a mill-horse round. It is with the former class that we are now chiefly concerned, as the compara- tively few Chinamen who emigrate to foreign countries trickle out from that vast reservoir of helotry. Let us, therefore, ask what is the cause of this lamentable condition of the mass of the Chinese poor, and what is their actual character as men ?

Circumstances existing for ages have enabled the Chinaman to exist on the least the muscular machinery ". Owing to the populousness of China, and its strictly organized social and industrial condition, the dense ignorance that prevails, the hatred of foreigners, and consequent prohibition of emigration, the slavery to custom which will "drive and the repression of thought and conduct by iron maxims and rules, it has resulted that the ordinary Chinese laborer, throughout ages past, has been forced to regulate his life, in a very direct and exclusive manner, in reference to the primitive human instinct of self-preservation, or at any rate, a low animal existence with a few coarse enjoyments. The long continued, uniform operation of overmastering external conditions, has compelled him, and it also has enabled him, to subsist on the very least which in his case will merely maintain the nerve-force that drives his muscular machinery. This is a physiological fact which it is necessary to recognize plainly, however we may conclude finally to deal with it. But there is something more that must be recognized at the same time, namely, what that fact carries with it, bearing in mind that the total energy of a

SPROAT

human body is a definite and not inexhaustible quantity, and that, if this The Chinese energy is used in one way, it is not available for use in another. The Chinese laborer, who, in his own country, laboring with merely intervals for sleep, cannot earn more than about five cents a day and has to exist on that, is in such a state of physical bondage that he has, perforce, to sacrifice everything to the available energy for his daily toil. The repression of the natural development of the man, which ought to be moral and intellectual as well as physical, together with an inherited inaptness, prevents his advancing much beyond the ways and means which the passion of self-preservation inspires and stimulates. The instinct for higher social development has no scope under the organized social condition of his country, and therefore ceases to be influential. The strange anomaly in human affairs thus appears in China, that, after ages of incessant exertion, the mass of the people in one of the oldest organized civilizations, a civilization which must have had its start in a good set of customs and must have been influenced by extraordinary men, are brought again by the revolution of ages almost into the rudimentary condition from which, presumably, they emerged and are doomed to be content like oxen for the sake of the oxen's provender. We have seen, it is lamentably true, some- thing of the same kind among our own race, but we have also seen this downward progress checked by the existence of social principles, that give scope to the remedial power of nature, which often places the antidote close beside the bane, and causes reaction to follow action. In China the evil attains complete development, because, in that country, the laboring poor, debased automatons of a single type or form, are absolutely without any inclination except for what is customary. The ethnologist and the Impossible for historian both freely admit that it is utterly impossible for such a people to join any society of human beings with the distinctive character of the western civili- stock which we include generally in the term of " western civilization."

laborer in China.

Strange cycle in Chinese history and civilization_

such a people to become part of zation.

It is, perhaps, hardly necessary to add that these Chinese laborers, thus Many of the im- evolved by a brute-making process, cannot much change their persistent migrants come enmeshed in character when they reach British Columbia from China. Yet, in crossing labor contracts .. the sea, something more than the sky is in their case changed. Many of them, enmeshed in labor contracts, with their own performance guaranteed by cruel penalties to their relatives at home, are less free here than they were in China. This is the condition of the majority of the Chinamen now in British Columbia. Others have escaped from China on easier terms, or have come from British possessions in the East. In the case of all of them, when opportunity arises, a powerful human passion-that of aquisit- iveness-receives greater stimulus, and has freer scope here than in the countries whence they came. This is not discreditable to the people, but it is hurtful to our community, as the Chinamen have to send, or do send, They send most most of their money to China, or hoard it for that purpose, and do not of their money to

become settlers. The Chinese helot in British Columbia is the helot of China, plus a more cruel slavery in the case of many, and in the case of all plus the devolpment of what is practically a powerful aggressive instinct.

Such then, shortly described, is the Chinese laborer round whom the Not desirable war of opinion now rages. The mere description of the man, and of the immigrants. causes, or the conditions of existence, that determine his character, goes a long way to answer the question whether he is a desirable immigrant ? His history has been stereotyped for several thousand years. The dis- tinctive character of his class in China is the largest fact that meets the eye in my survey of mankind. That character is of a fixed, persistent type, alien, beyond any control or chance of change, to everything that

China and do not become settlers.

concerns western civilization. The fact of his being what he is suffices to throw the whole burden of defensive proof upon those who permit his presence in English-speaking communities. Well informed men, who reason upon such questions, have known his unsuitableness from the first, and now the fact has been recognized in every English-speaking community except the Canadian. It is by knowledge of China, and what Chinamen unfortunately are, rather than by considering certain comparative morali- ties and habits observable on the surface of Chinese life here, that a judg- ment respecting Chinese immigration should be formed, though the observation of such things in British Columbia may suggest lines of direc- tion, and afford some glimpses of the true state of the case to those who begin to study it. Such enquirers should be careful not to mix facts that refer to the Chinese immigrants of a better class who accompany the ordinary laboring immigrants, with the facts that may help to show the character of the latter, bearing all the while in mind that none of the Chinese, whether the cultured or the debased, will join our social or politi- cal life at any point. The inherited abhorrence and contempt with which they, and especially the educated Chinese, regard us and our ways, and the abject slavery of all of them to custom and tradition, effectually prevent this.

The substantial grievance of the white settlers in the province, from the social and political point of view, consequently, is that while burdened with a mass of uncivilized Indians whose numbers exceed their own, an additional enormous mass of ignorant and debased aliens, male adults without families, and absolutely without any capabilities for citizenship, are forced upon them, in remorseless disregard of their well-being and of the repeated resolutions and acts of their legislature. I must think that the mere statement of this grievance condemns those who refuse redress, unless it can be shown that the Chinamen will adopt the family relation or become citizens, or that some overwhelming national need justifies the social and political sacrifice, to a large extent, of this portion of the Dominion. If what has been stated already is correct, no such expecta- tion can be entertained as regards the Chinamen, and what the justifica- tory national need may be supposed to have been will be discussed farther on.

For the present, putting aside attenuated comparisons of human rather than specially Chinese moralities, and also pharisaical pleas that could not be the basis of legislation, let us follow the above statement of the social and political grievance of the white settlers in general, with some remarks on the effect of Chinese immigration upon the most important class in all communities, namely, the workingmen. Here again the statement of facts already made carries everything with it, in the judgment of thoughtful minds. Is it possible to exaggerate the gravity of the mere fact that a mass of foreign labor of the kind described is invited or permitted to compete with our workmen, who have not the same race-history as the Chinamen, and who cannot make the sacrifices necessary to place them in a similar physical condition without detriment to our national hopes and our civilized position ? It is not from want of industry or will that the Canadian unskilled workman cannot compete with the Chinese laborer, but from causes which are so rooted in history that he is utterly unable to remove them-significant differences which we do not wish him to try to remove. The Canadian workman is unfairly weighted, and weighted because he is a civilized man, in being forced to offer his labor in competi- tion with that of a man who, as the product of a debased social condition,

SPROAT

is capable of existing here on ten cents a day, the bulk of his earnings going to his contract-masters, and who remains absolutely outside our community, in a state of low animal apathy to all that concerns its well- being.

Strange to say, this extraordinary juxtaposition and competition of the Yet the attitude civilized and the decivilized man is permitted deliberately by the Dominion of labor among western nations calculated to make statesmen Government at a time when, if there is one portent to make social reformers and statesmen grave, it is the unrest of labor everywhere look narrowly at among the western nations-a profound dissatisfaction with labor's social this question. position, and a firm determination on the part of the toilers to readjust it.

There is not a more indisputable fact in history than the fact that, speaking generally, in most European and also American communities, the wages, particularly of unskilled labor (which are settled, as the best economists are agreed, by a real though commonly tacit combination among employers) have been so low as to give rise to many of the evils which are noticeable in the case of the Chinese. Various economic cir- cumstances, however, together with the spread of intelligence, have enabled the working classes in modern days, more particularly the artisans in Europe and America, to lessen the misery of their position in some level. degree by meeting combination with combination, and getting thereby better chances in offering their labor. A descent towards the Chinese level has thus been timeously checked. The combinations on the part of capital and on the part of labor, respectively, are legitimate, provided that the ends are sought by legitimate means. In England, the govern- ment, representing educated opinion in these disputes between the wealth- takers and the wealth earners, admits that the pleas in support of the rights of capital serve equally to justify the moral basis and views of unionism, and it therefore stands aloof from both. This principle, or rule, is utterly violated here by the invitation or permission given by the Dominion Government to Chinese immigration. Capital, in consequence, The Canadian continues to exercise its now more opportune right of combination, but working man the scale is weighted unfairly against the Canadian workman, because he handicapped. cannot associate with the Chinaman in the general interests of labor or for any purpose whatsoever. Instead of standing aloof, the Dominion Government, by practically introducing and permitting two or more China- men to stand beside each workman in the province, fetters labor by the power of the state, while leaving capital free in the negotiations as to the conditions of employment Such a thing could not be attempted in Eng- land, nor has it been permitted by the Australasian colonies, nor could it have been done here had not British Columbia been part of Canada.

Having made these few observations on the broad, social, political, and industrial aspects of the question, it is unnecessary for me to accompany you farther beyond the central position that has been reached, along the many natural pathways of research which open out from that standpoint, and will be found to afford good means of acquiring interesting, if not decisive, information for the satisfaction of those who require it. Legis- Legislation must lation, of course, must be based on some such broad considerations as those mentioned, and not upon possibly strained inferences from, or the judicial balancing of, piddling details and volunteer opinions, collected rapidly in a career of one of the provinces of the Dominion.

But a word or two may be in place, before concluding this letter, on a subject which, it is hoped, after the next session of the Canadian Parlia- ment, will have only historical significance-I mean the supposed justi- ficatory national need for permitting the unrestricted introduction of Chinese immigrants. -

Combination among white workmen has prevented a des- cent to Chinese

be based on broad considerations.

That the labor of the Chinese in this country has produced wealth is too obvious an economic truth to be gainsaid by any one. The important questions are : What is the nature of that wealth, and what has been the effect of their disposition of their earnings ? Were the 15,000 or 18,000 Chinamen, who are said to be here, removed to-morrow, it would not appear that they have created many taxable objects on which the govern- ment could lay its hand. They have helped little to grind down the sur- face of our portion of the earth for permanent civilized occupation and use. In some industries they have enabled a larger amount of capital to be employed; but probably their productive energies have been chiefly useful in assisting to construct the Canadian Pacific Railway within the province-a line of communication which may tend to facilitate the creation of wealth. As regards the disposition of their earnings, these are consumed, for the most part, unproductively, inasmuch as the China- men do not apply these to purposes of further production, but largely remit them to China, either directly or in an indirect manner.

As counterbalancing, therefore, the evils caused by the presence of the Chinamen, the government can do little more than point to certain assist- ance in constructing a portion of the Canadian Pacific Railway. This is the national need which is supposed to have justified their introduction. This is the sum of the merely material advantage which can be set against the various evils resulting from their presence and likely to afflict. us permanently.

It would ill-become a British Columbian writer, perhaps, to object to the means found necessary to make the railway quickly. The Dominion Government might say : "You urged us to make the railway soon, and we "took the only means to make it soon. We authorized the use of the " only labor that could be got." To this many persons here would reply that there was no absolute need to employ Chinese labor, and that, if the need existed, it was not of such an imperative character as to justify the policy adopted, without specific negotiations on the subject between the province and the Dominion. Is it true that white labor could not have been found ? What would have been the actual expenditure for such labor, as compared with the cost of Chinese labor ; and how would the comparison stand between the two kinds, in view of the admitted greater efficiency of white labor and the tendency of white laborers to become settlers or to use their surplus earnings productively, in a manner to develop permanent taxable resources ? These are questions which, no doubt, the Commission will examine and elucidate in order to give the Canadian Parliament a complete view of the whole case.

May I be permitted to advert to a matter of which, perhaps, more will be heard, the failure of the Commission to secure, in this place, the sympathetic cooperation of many persons here who are very averse to Chinese immigration ? I do not speak with any authority, but from what I hear this has not arisen from any disrespect to the Dominion Govern- ment, or to their Special Commissioner who personally represents, in one sense, a portion of the people of Canada to whom the people here are specially well inclined. The aloofness appears to be caused by an opinion that the Dominion Government, not however with any constraint of its discretion afterwards, is bound, constitutionally, to accept the resolu- tions of the provincial legislature on the Chinese question, so far as British Columbia is concerned. It is not considered that any transient commission, or body whatsoever, unknown to the constitution, can properly be instructed practically to review these resolutions. At the same time it is admitted that a Dominion Government Commission may properly

SPROAT

of Royal Commis -.

enquire here into subjects that belong to it, such as the effect of Chinese Asto the functions. immigration upon the well-being of the Indians, or suitable custom house sions. methods in view of legislation, or may enquire into anything, so long as it if not proposed to set the result of the enquiry against the repeated res- ponsible decisions of our legislature on the same subject, or to claim a right to blame those persons who stand aloof, for reasons not at all of a personal or party character. These opinions may be wrong, but they are at least such as may be honestly acted upon by moderate men who dislike misunderstandings and disputes when they can possibly be avoided.

Regretting that circumstances do not permit me, at present, to do more than make these few statements and suggestions as a small contribution towards the solution of a question in which all the provinces of Canada will soon find they have a common interest.

GILBERT MALCOLM SPROAT.

R. O'BRIEN, M. D., president of the Nanaimo Trades Association, submits O'BRIEN. the following in that behalf :-

Ever since Confederation the Dominion Government have endeavored to infuse into the people a national sentiment. In pursuance of that laudable purpose the national or protective policy was introduced in 1878- 79. The avowed object of that policy was Canada for the Canadians. It was designed to increase the wages of labor and secure a partial monopoly of the Canadian market to Canadian manufacturers and employers of labor. In the eastern provinces that object was in a measure attained. In this province where nature has done so much to encourage manufac- turing and so very little to encourage agriculture that policy should have borne good fruit. Coal and iron are placed in juxtaposition inviting the industry of iron smelting. At Nanaimo nature has done so much towards Resources of B. C ... the construction of a dry-dock that the expenditure of $50,000 would give us one of the largest docks in the world, and we have every facility for ship-building. Our relations with Australia and the Sandwich Islands are such as to make it possible to manufacture woolen goods and sugar at the lowest cost, nevertheless so narrow-minded and sectional has been the legislation of our provincial government that the possibilities above referred to have been rendered impossible. It is a very well known fact that although Vancouver Island has been prospected in every direction for coal the only known workable seams yet discovered are comprised within the railway reserve-a belt of land twenty miles broad, and according to the report of Marcus Smith, C. E., who surveyed the route in 1874, 180 miles long. For twelve years no person has been able to secure an acre of this reserve on any pretence whatever. Had it been opened in blocks of 5,000 acres, Subject to a royalty, ten years ago, dozens of coal mines would now be in operation, the price of coal would have been reduced and manu- facturing rendered not only feasible, but in a manner compulsory. But the intent of Dominion legislation has been effectually thwarted by the alienation of the reserve to a company that commenced twelve years ago without a dollar to develop 200 acres of land, and when coal was cheaper in San Francisco than now, when digging cost $1.25 per ton compared with 90 cents now, and the profits have been so large that the principal shareholder has made a visible fortune of $2,000,000. The consideration paid for this enormous monopoly is the construction of a railway for which not one valid excuse can be offered, and from which no one but town lot speculators in Victoria will reap any benefit.

O'BRIEN

Vancouver Island Ry. Co. employing Chinese.

It is just now that this corporation-the Vancouver Island Railway Company-are employing Chinese to the largest extent possible. Having secured the possibility of competition, enjoying such enormous profits from the exportation of coal in the raw state, that generations must elapse before they will be compelled to create a home consumption for their coal by engaging in manufacturing, they endeavor to extort another dollar of profit per ton by employing Chinese railway laborers and miners. This we contend is contrary to the intent of Dominion legislation.

It will be granted, we think, that a healthy, dignified, intelligent labor- ing class, animated by patriotism and sympathy with the general welfare of the whole Dominion, eager in all honorable ways to better their con- dition and elevate the general status of the nation, is desirable and is worth protecting, yet this class of men can now never become employers of labor themselves, because the resources of the country which they would have developed by the employment of labor have been forever placed beyond their reach. This class of men, of whom Nanaimo possesses 1,000, are constrained to remain forever in the subordinate position of Civilized work- men cannot compete with Chinese. employees. As such they are exposed to a terrible competition. Civiliza- tion has made it necessary that they should live, eat and clothe them- selves in a certain style, that they should marry and educate their chil- dren, that they should take an intelligent interest in the politics of their country, and should lay up a few dollars for their maintenance in old age. There is a minimum rate of wages below which they cannot subsist. The Chinese grow rich at wages below that minimum. True, they live upon food and in habitations that would kill white men ; true, they take no interest in politics and have no sympathy with our aspirations ; true, they do not come here with wives and children and become Canadians in the true sense of the word; true, there is no excuse for employing them in coal mines on the ground that the small profits of the business make it necessary, for the facts belie that contention ; nevertheless they are used Chinese degrade labor. as a foil to degrade that labor which is the source of all prosperity, and to further increase those profits that have become so large that our very provincial legislature is threatened with extinction in their presence. Further importa- tion of Chinese should be stopped. We would ask that the further importation of Chinese labor be stopped on the ground that it is detrimental to the national interests. To be consistent, either the Chinese should be placed in possession of immense tracts of coal lands and be permitted to compete with our capitalists, or that we like those capitalists should be placed beyond all fear of compe- tition with them. If things are permitted to go on as they are now, the system will be reintroduced ; a few white men will reign over a com- munity of serfs, and that class of people who have carried civilization over the whole world, have wrung liberty out of despotism, and made con- stitutional Government possible, will be driven gradually but surely out of the country. As nationalists, as protectionists, as British Columbians, who have always opposed the construction of the Vancouver Island Railway, as Canadians, we appeal to the Dominion to extend to the 30,000 inhabitants who are not protected, the same protection that has Laborer should be been granted to the Vancouver Island Railway Company -- protection from Chinese competition.

Anglo-Saxon will be driven out of the country.

protected from Chinese competi- tion.

On behalf of the Nanaimo Trades' Association.

ROBERT O'BRIEN, President.

EVIDENCE TAKEN AT PORTLAND, OREGON.

PORTLAND, August 28th, 1884.

NELSON BENNETT, formerly of Toronto, contractor for the Cascade divi- sion of the Northern Pacific Railway, examined :

Q. Do you employ many Chinese ?- A. Not as many as white laborers. Two Chinamen We employ Chinese because we are at present shoving things, just because we need them. I prefer white labor if I can get it. I am partial to Scandinavian labor if that can be got. Two Chinamen are worth about one white man.

Q. How much do you pay the Chinamen ?- A. Eighty cents a day, and 80c. a day paid to they furnish themselves with board and tents.

Q. And how much do you pay the white laborer ?- A. Two dollars a $2 a day and tents day, and I furnish tents and they pay their own board. given to whites.

Q. Then you get the Chinaman for less than half ?- A. Yes ; but we get no trade from them. They furnish themselves through their own offices and stores, whereas the white men buy their provisions and clothing from us. We make a profit on that, and the difference between $2 a day for the white man and eighty cents for the Chinaman is compensated by the profits on that trade and the greater amount of work done by the white man. Half the number of white men is cheaper for a contractor than double the amount of Chinamen. They have not much endurance. Men that do not eat, they cannot endure.

Half the number of whitemen cheaper for a contractor.

Q. What is your system of emplyoing them ? Do you deal individually with them ?- A. No ; we hire them in companies or gangs. When you They are hired in hire them in gangs you cannot individualize them, and consequently if you gangs. have a trouble with one Chinaman it is a trouble with the whole gang. On the other hand, if you have trouble with one white man you can discharge him alone.

Q. We have been told that if a Chinaman was not satisfactory he was pointed out and at once removed ?- A. Yes ; and the next moment he is Inconvenience in another gang. of this.

Q. Is there anything else which occurs to you as likely to prove useful to the Commission in its enquiry ?- A. The Chinaman is of no earthly ac- When white laborers em- count in a country. If you employ white laborers one out of ten settles in ployed one in ten the country. We find this in Montana where we employ white laborers settle. altogether ; but on this coast where Chinamen are employed you will find 500 miles at a stretch without settlement excepting railroad employees.

HUANG SIC CHEN

172

HUANG SIC CHEN, who put in a statement at Victoria being here, was examined :

Q. Can you tell me the number of Chinese in Portland ?- A. About 9,000. Last year there were 30,000, but 21,000 have gone away because the railway stopped work.

Q. Where have they gone ?- A. Some to San Francisco and some back to China.

Q. Do the Chinese hold a great deal. of property here ? A. Most of the Chinese buildings are built by themselves. The land cannot be purchased from the white man here, and therefore the buildings have been put up on long leases.

Q. Are the Chinese treated better in Portland than in San Francisco ? -A. Yes, a little better.

Q. Have you any idea of the value of property held by the Chinese in Portland ?- A. No, but it is very large.

Q. What are the principal staples of trade among the Chinese here ?- A. Most of them come from China, such as tea and rice. The clothes of merchants and laborers are mostly bought here. Certain kinds of dress come from China. Such a dress as I wear [a light blue silk] comes from China, and the shoes.

Q, How many women are here ?- A. About 300 married women.

Q. Are there any prostitutes ?- A. About fifty.

Q. Is there much opium-smoking here ?- A. Less than in San Fran- cisco. Very few Chinese gentlemen smoke opium. Opium-smoking is not as injurious as drunkenness.

Q. Besides working on the railway and having shops of merchandise, what are the principal occupations of the Chinese here ?- A. Fishing.

Q. Fishing ?- A. I mean about 5,000 are employed in the trade of preserving fish-fish caught by the whites. The Chinese are only em- ployees of the white fish preservers.

Q. What wages do the Chinamen so employed earn ?- A. From $20 to $60 a month and they feed themselves.

Q. You have accounted for 5,000 out of the 9,000; of what classes are the remaining 4,000 made up ?- A. Cultivators of wheat.

Q. But I thought you said they lived in Portland ?- A. Most of those employed in fish preserving do their work in Astoria. At present the whole 5,000 in the city because the fish works have stopped.

Q. Then when the fish-preserving works were going there could not have been 9,000 ?- A. No.

Q. You say 4,000 are engaged in husbandry ; are there 4,000 besides these to add to the 5,000 in order to make up the 9,000, for people engaged in husbandry cannot live in the city ?- A. Yes, we have 4,000 made up.

HUANG SIC CHEN

of merchants, mill hands, washermen, cooks, railway laborers near the city, vegetable cultivators, pedlers, some are servants of the white people and some are laborers who go to and fro from the interior to here.

Q. When you said there were 30,000 Chinese in Portland, you must 30,000 Chinese have meant in this state ?- A. Yes. were in Oregon.

Q. And now I gather you think there are 13,000 Chinese in the state ? Now only 13,000. -A. Yes.

Q. Has there been any such movement here against the Chinese as in No such move- San Francisco ?- A. No, not like San Francisco.

ment against Chinese as in San Francisco.

Q. But has there been any movement at all ?- A. Very little. The reason is because most of them in San Francisco are Irish, and they do not like the Chinese.

PORTLAND, Oregon, August 29th, 1884.

GERTRUDE RATHBUN (see Appendix D), examined : RATHBUN.

Q. What is your name ?- A. Gertrude Rathbun.

Q. Are you a native of Portland ?- A. I am.

Q. Are you the only white person employed in this establishment ?__ Two white girls A. No; there is one other young lady employed here.

employed by a Chinese mer- chant.

Q. During what hours in the day do you work ?- A. I come at nine in the morning and work until nine o'clock at night.

Q. Have you worked for white people ?- A. I have worked in two white shops.

Q. Which do you like best ?- A. Well, the Chinese pay better, and are Chinese em- much more polite than Americans would be. I should prefer working for them than a Jew any day. It is just as good working for them as for the ordinary white person. They are perfectly respectful, much more employers. than Americans. They never show the least tendency to take a liberty. The man who owns this shop is a perfect gentleman.

Q. Do you find them straightforward ?- A. Perfectly. They are the Very honest. most honest people you can have any dealings with.

ployers pay better

han white, and are more polite than American

Captain CORNELIUS, in the absence of the chief of police, was examined : CORNELIUS.

Q. Are you the next in command to the chief ?- A. One of three next in command.

Q. Have you an opportunity of knowing the character of the Chinese population ?- A. Yes.

Q. Is it a law-abiding population ?- A. I do not think it is ; I say, no. Chinese not law-abiding.

CORNELIUS

In petty offences not worse than others.

Q. What is the proportion of crime among the Chinese compared with that among other classes, taking the relative numbers into account ?- A. Well, in petty offences, I do not suppose they are much in the majority to any other class ; but I think there are very few Chinese who are not They will all steal. dishonest. They steal when they get a show. Another thing which pre- vails among the Chinese, nearly all their women are prostitutes.

Q. Do you know how many ? - A. I do not know. There are at least. three hundred ; probably not over four or five legitimate marriages.

Q. If the criminality among them is as you describe, you ought to have a good many criminals ?- A. The court records will show that. They furnish nearly half the criminal business to the courts. They buy and sell women and children, and they are governed among themselves princi- pally by their own laws.

Q. Well, have you more of them in gaol than whites ?- A. No; because they are bailed out by the companies to which they belong, unless they are very bad criminals. They hire the very best talent we have in the states to defend them.

Q. Yes, but to have a man tried does not prove he is a criminal. How many have you in goal or in the penitentiary under sentence ?- A. There are none in the city gaol at present, but there are twelve in the penitentiary.

Q. Is there anything else you think would be of use to us ?- A. They bring their Chinese customs with them, and are governed by their own laws. They buy women and sell them, just as they do at home in China, and they settle the difficulties among themselves the same as they do in China.

WM. HICKEY, police officer for fifteen years, had had a little to do with the Chinese, examined :

Q. What is their character as regards crime ? - A. There are less criminals to the hundred among them than among any other class ; but that does not mean there is not as much crime among them. But it is impossible to bring conviction home to them. First, because let a China- man commit a crime and run in among his countrymen, none of them would give him away. Secondly, because of the difficulty of identification. I believe they are all thieves, all except the merchants. Anyway they are a curse to the country, a curse to the laboring classes, because they can come here and live on rice, and undersell the laborer in his own market.

A. B. BRENNAN, examined :

Q. What is your name ?- A. A. B. Brennan.

Q. What is your business : a constable ?- A. Yes.

Q. How long have you been a constable ?- A. Going on sixteen years.

BRENNAN.

Q. Are you brought much in contact with Chinamen ?- A, Yes, there are a good many on my beat.

Q. You have heard the evidence of Captain Cornelius, is there any- Majority use thing which occurs to you to add, that you think would be useful to us in opium to excess .. our enquiry ?- A. Only this, that while a good many Chinamen do not use opium to excess the majority of them do. There are a great many whites among the young of both sexes who use it, and these become degraded worse than Chinamen. Get a white person addicted to this vice and they care for nothing, society or anything else ; they will even steal. A great many of them are brought in here. I heard you ask, a moment ago, whether drinking whiskey was not as bad as opium. But it smokers. White opiumn is a mistake to suppose that Chinamen do not drink. The Chinamen drink, and they have got now that they will go to the ordinary saloons ; Chinamen drink. and at their own saloons they have big dinners, where they drink a great deal, all their own liquors, wines from China. I have seen them frequently pretty well on ; but on these occasions they never come out. If they came outside they would have been sent in. The other night at a white restaurant on Fourth and Oak streets I saw two Chinamen and two Chi- nese women in there. This was something very unusual.

Q. Do you know how many Chinese prostitutes are here ?- A. No, There are Chinese I cannot tell ; but the number is large. There are a lot of loafers among loafers who live these Chinamen who buy these women and live on their prostitution. tion of women. on the prostitu- This has been proved in court. They were useful in building the rail- way, but outside of that they have been no benefit to this country.

A. B. SLANSON, examined :

SLANSON.

Q. Mr. Slanson, I believe you are connected with the press ?- A. Yes ; I am on the staff of the Oregonian.

Q. Is that the leading paper here ?- A. Yes.

Q. How long have you been in Portland ?- A. A little over two years.

Q. Have your duties led you to observe the conduct and character of Chinese useful in the Chinese ?- A. Yes. I am the regular court reporter of the paper. In opening up the opening up the country they were probably of great value to the railroads. country. At that time it would probably have been impossible to have supplied their place.

Q. What do you think of them from a commercial point of view ?- Their presence tal. A. They do a great deal of business as labor contractors and clearing up morally detrimen- the country, and they deal quite largely in various staples. Some very wealthy merchants here who do a large trade. But from a moral point of view their presence here is detrimental. There is nothing in their manner of living to encourage morality ; on the contrary, I think it is quite the other way. They will steal whenever they get a chance, and are Like the old-time very much like the old-time down-South negroes from a police point of down-South view. They are very often in court. In fact they furnish the heavy business negroes. of the court in petty crimes : larceny and fighting among themselves. Only the other day a man struck another with a hatchet. The company sentenced the man to be killed, and they sent an assassin and had him killed. Only two weeks ago there was a murder among them. The man

is now in the county jail. There is no doubt he will be hanged because the evidence is strong. They are unscrupulous in their manner of dealing out revenge.

Q. What do you think of the effect of the amendment to the Restriction Act ?- A. It has been a good thing.

Q. But you would not drive those that are here out, would you ?- A. Well, I do not know. I do not see why they are much good. I think now white labor would be here if not for the Chinese and certainly they would be better than to have the Chinaman.

Q. What is the public feeling regarding them in Portland ?- A. There is a public sentiment against them. But there is a public sentiment for them. I think there are more against them than for them. Our repre- sentatives are against the Chinese. The recent Chinese Amendment Act was earnestly supported by our senators and representatives.

JOSEPH B. KENNEDY, waited on the Commission and wished to be examined :

Q. Mr. Kennedy, what is your business ? A. A property holder.

Q. Are you a landlord ? A. Yes.

Q. How long have you been in Portland ?- A. Two years ; four years in the state.

Q. Have you had much to do with the Chinese ?- A. I have had con- siderable dealings with Chinamen.

Q. Well, what do you want to say ?- A. I wish to say that I believe a very wrong and unprincipled agitation is being got up against them. They are very good people, much better than my own people. They have cleared most of the land. They are honest and clean.

Q. Are any of them tenants of yours ?- A. Yes. They are good tenants and clean, according to the numbers in the buildings, and punctual to pay their debts-their rents. I find no difficulty with them. They are very industrious, more so than my own people-the Americans. Their habits are better than those of the Americans. There is not so much drunkenness. All they want is to learn our language and become citizens of this country. They would make good settlers. They have built our railroads. I hire them, and they are very attentive and do their work as agreed upon. Their moral character is good. They are not as profane as the Americans, nor so much inclined to theft and murder and robbery. In fact they are superior morally to any other race which comes to this country, excepting in education and learning our language.

You describe them as perfect paragons. Do they not quarrel among themselves ?- A. They are not so quarrelsome among themselves as the American people. I had four hundred of them in one building, and there was no quarreling to speak of among them; and taking into account their

PORTLAND, Oregon, 30th August, 1884.

KENNEDY

numbers they were clean, more so than any other nation. With four hundred Americans in one house there would be a great deal of fighting and gambling and drunkenness. I have no prejudice against people on account of color. Simple justice is what I ask for them, and if it was any Wants justice. other people I would speak out in the same way. I think that any one coming to this country should have the same right as another.

Q. Four hundred tenants in one house ought to pay you well ?- A. I have said they pay well.

Q. Have you visited their schools ? A. I have, also the mission schools. Agitation a They are anxious to learn our language and very quick. They show great political. aptitude. I can hardly account for this antipathy to them. Everything seems to be in their favor. Their habits are good. They wish to do what is right. It is all political. For political reasons the press have agitated against them and disturbed the people. I think if they had votes they would not seek to get control of the government as other nationalities do.

Q. Where does your property lie ? A. On Sixth and Fourth streets.

Q. Have you anything else to add ?- A. No, sir.

12

McCOPPIN

APPENDIX A.

ABSTRACT OF EVIDENCE taken before a Joint Committee composed of a committee of the Senate and a committee of the House of Repre- sentatives of the United States, which commenced its sittings at San Francisco, October 18th, 1876.

On the 6th of July, 1876, the Senate of the United States appointed a committee of three to investigate the character, extent and effect of Chinese immigration to the United States.

On the 17th of the same month the House of Representatives appointed three of its members for the same purpose.

Subsequently the two special committees were authorized to act as a joint special committee.

This Joint Committee visited the Pacific coast in October, 1876, and 130 witness examined one hundred and thirty witnesses. The plan adopted was first examined. to examine persons "opposed to the unlimited introduction of Chinese ;" then to hear those favorable to "such introduction," and then to " afford time for witnesses in rebuttal."

Hon. FRANK McCOPPIN, representing the Senate of the State of California, McCOPPIN. in the course of an argument against Chinese immigration, made the following statements :-

China, brought so near to America by steam, contained a population of 400,000,000 souls. If encouraged, the Chinese will become the most migratory on the face of the globe. They do not assimilate. They threaten to overrun the Pacific coast ; but they are determined to return to China. They have no desire to acquire real property in America. The assessed value of all the real property in California was $600,000,000 ; but Chinese pay less the Chinese, though numerically one-sixth of the population, do not own to exceed $1,500,000 of this amount, and therefore pay less than one four required for the hundreth part of the revenue required to support the government of the state. Chinese population of California is 116,000, of which 30,000 is domiciled in San Francisco. Of these only five or six hundred are women, mostly occupants of forty or fifty houses of prostitution. These women Prostitutes. are sold into this degrading slavery. Fifty or sixty gambling houses constantly open in the Chinese quarter. A pretty large proportion of the class called criminal found among these people. Inhabitants of China- of criminals. town governed by the Six Companies rather than by the municipality. Frugal and requiring little the Chinaman can undersell the European Undersell the laborer. A portion of a shelf fifteen to thirty inches wide serves him for European a bed and a little rice suffices for his food. laborer.

than 1-400th part of the revenue

state government ..

Large proportion

FRANK M. PIXLEY, representing the Municipality of San Francisco, in PIXLEY. an argument against Chinese immigration, stated :

The Chinese in the state number from 150,000 to 175,000. The Mr Pixley con- Chinese when through with any work undertaken outside the city return to Chinatown, and in the winter not less than 75,000 Chinese residents in San Francisco ; in the summer, 30,000. The Chinese are atheists and

tends that Chinese- in the state num- ber from 150,000 to 175,000.

PIXLEY

Polygamy. Prostitution. Testimony worthless.

All intend to go back to China.

heathens. They believe in Confucius without following his moral precepts. Polygamy and prostitution prevail. Their testimony is worthless, and the Chinese prostitutes corrupt and infect the young white boys. The men come voluntarily to California but most of the women, i.e., the prostitutes are enslaved. All contemplate returning to China. They have no knowledge of American institutions. They are expert in all kinds of light labor. Many of them are most excellent laborers.

Dangerous to white population because they labor so well. Rate of wages. One of the things which make them dangerous to the white laboring population is that they labor so well. They learn trades and become manufacturers and drive the white man out of the trade he established. Skilled Chinese labor receives from 50c. to $1 per day ; railroad and tule laborers, from 60c. to $1 a day ; farm hands, $1 a day ; fruit- pickers, $1.10 ; all boarding themselves. Chinese labor drives the white laborer to starvation. The white laborer requires meat and bread ; the Chinaman only rice, tea, dried fish and dessicated vegetables. The food of the one can in San Francisco be purchased for ten cents a day ; that of the other will cost several times that amount. The white laborer, as a rule, has a wife and family ; the Chinaman is an adult male who has no Chinese laborer without wife or family. wife, no family, no child. The white married laborer requires at the least two rooms, and if he has grown-up children another room at least for them, and if the children are of different sexes, each must have a separate room. Chinamen would throw a partition through a large room 'Chinamen capable build bunks on the side, and lie down on the floor, and would cook in a of living in an overcrowded state. brazier not bigger than a spittoon. One hundred of them would live in this room, while the poorest Christian familly of five in the state would think themselves cramped in double the space. Sixty thousand people If 60,000 white laborers took the place of 60,000 Chi- nese, San Fran- cisco would have 300,000 white people to extend its bounds and its business. live in six or seven blocks of this city. If sixty thousand white laborers took their place, San Francisco, instead of 60,000 Chinamen, would have 300,000 white people to extend the city and stimulate business. The Chinese have no duties to the state. They do not act as jurymen ; they cannot be called out to quell a riot ; in case of war they would supply no soldiers ; they buy but little property ; pay but a small amount of taxes ; and so live that they pay but little rent.

·Chinese prevent immigration of white laborers.

The Chinese prevent the immigration of white labor to the Pacific coast both from the eastern states and from Europe.

Sanitary con- dition.

Small-pox.

Independent testimony of the highest authority proved that in China and in California the Chinese are not a cleanly people. Their sanitary condition is bad ; they introduced the small pox into San Francisco ; and only for the climate it would drive the whites into the sea. Vaccination they do not believe in ; but they inoculate ; inoculation is compulsory in China.

They come mainly from Canton, the port of which is the English sailing port of Hong Kong.

Number of women * in California and in San Francisco.

He believed he could show there was not in the entire state a Chinese family as Americans understood the sacred relation.

About 4,000 Chinese women in the state and in San Francisco ; from 1,200 to 2,000 made up of prostitutes, or concubines, or second wives. The prostitutes are held in bondage, and are of the most debased and abandoned kind.

Six Companies.

No Chinaman until he is free on the books of the company to which he belongs can leave Cali- . fornia.

The Six Companies are voluntary institutions without any recognition under American law. They keep immigrants, taking large interest for advances ; they arbitrate and settle difficulties ; they have secret tribunals exercising a criminal and civil jurisdiction. When a Chinaman is a creditor for money or obligation he cannot leave the state of California, except by consent of the company to which he belongs, an arrangement

PIXLEY

existing between the Six Companies and the Steam Navigation Company, that no Chinaman is to be passed without a certificate that he is free on the books of the companies.

Mr. Pixley having dwelt on the religious character of the Chinese stated that he would show the balance of trade as between China and America was against America.

He admitted that Chinese labor had contributed to the more speedy development of our material resources ; their convenience as domestic servants ; nor would he represent the Chinese as wanting in many of the development of essentials of good citizens. California.

"The burden of our accusation against them is that they come in con- The indictment flict with our labor interests ; that they can never assimilate with us *** against Chinese. that their civilization is demoralizing and degrading to our people ; that, they degrade and dishonor labor " *** and are "an element both demor- alizing and dangerous to the community within which it exists."

Mr. CAMERON H. KING, addressed to the joint committee an argument on behalf of the anti-coolie clubs of San Francisco. He briefly went over the same grounds as the two previous speakers.

F. A. BEE, as attorney for the Six Companies, then put the other side of BEE. the question :

Legislation in the state and city had been one sided. The Chinamen One-sided legisla- who sold vegetables paid a tax of $10, while the white man who drove his tion. waggon only paid $2. The China laundryman who carried the clothes to his patrons paid $15 (unless he was right in supposing this had been declared illegal) while the white man who drove the laundry waggon only paid $2.50.

At the time the Burlingame Treaty was negotiated, England controlled Trade and com- ninety per cent. of the commerce of the Orient. The American merchant Orient. merce with the bought the bulk of his teas in the English market. But all this was being changed. The Pacific Railroad had been built ; the Orient and the Occident had been brought nearer ; and were they now going to close their ports to trade and commerce with the Orient ?

The government of the United States had forced the present relations (1876) upon the Chinese Government. Under the treaty the Chinese immigrant came, and the riches of China were opened up to the American merchant marine. Were they willing to forego these advantages, because 150,000 honest toilers had come to California ?

He had seen the Chinese immigrants stoned from the time they left Ill-treatment of" their ships until they reached Chinatown. He had seen them leaning Chinese. over the sides of the waggon with their scalps cut open. No police interfered. In portions of San Francisco, no Chinamandare be seen. The Chinese had no privileges.

First the capitation tax of $20 existed for two years. Next the Chinese Chinese unequally were each taxed $5 a month for mining. The tax of $5 a month levied taxed. on all foreign miners was, as a rule, collected only from the Chinese. They have been taxed for landing $10 and taxed for shipping to their homes the bones of their dead.

Mr. Bee read an address of the Six Companies to the American public, dated April 5th, 1876.

Chinese labor had contributed to the more speedy

BEE

Without the Chinese the crops could not be gathered in.

With Chinese cheap labor Cali- fornia can com- pete with the granaries of the world.

1,000,000 acres of tule lands reclai- med by Chinese. Five Points in New-York worse than any China- town.

The Five Points in New York was more of a cess-pool of disease and filth than six Chinatowns like that in San Francisco. The frugality and thrift of the Chinamen were made points against him.

American trade with China.

400,000 tons (American) engaged in Chinese trade. For the first nine months of 1876 there was sent to China from San Francisco other than treasure exports to the value of $2,211,798.

Chinese laborpaid as high as white labor in the East. The Chinese laborer insisted on as much as was paid in the western states to a laborer, good servants, ingenious, necessary to manufacturing enterprise in California. Ten years before 1876, $40,000,000 was sent Up to 1866, $40,000,- East to buy commodities ; now (1876) owing to the development of manufactures by Chinese cheap labor only $20,000,000 sent east. A large number of those who denounce Chinese labor employ Chinese in their houses. No Chinamen come under contract of servile labor. The Chinese are hardy, industrious laborers. They have but few vices and do not drink. They respect American usages and laws.

000 a year sent east to buy goods.

Those who denounced them employ them. Do not drink and are law-abiding.

Mr. Bee then read an appeal from the Chinese published in April, 1876, asking for the protection of the police. In this appeal, as in the address to the American people referred to above, a willingness is ex- pressed to see the treaty repealed or modified.

Mr. Bee also read an address, dated April 5th, 1876, from the Six Com- panies to the mayor of San Francisco, calling his attention to a report that the Chinese quarter would be attacked by a mob ; asking for protection, and saying that failing this, should the attack take place, they had not the power, even if they had the disposition, to prevent their countrymen selling their lives as dearly as possible.

Significance of the queue.

The queue ordi- nance.

The queue designated a Chinaman as having certain religious and social claims, and to lose it was an eternal disgrace. Mr. Bee denounced the " queue ordinance," which brought a Chinaman arrested for the most trivial offence "under the scissors." The law, Mr. Bee admitted, was general-namely, that the hair be cut two inches from the head. But then the white man had no queue. The law was aimed at the Chinese.

The Chinese servant did the domestic drudgery of 75,000 of the popu- lation of San Francisco. He holds the balance of power against Bridget, as he does against trades-unions.

The Chinese servant held the balance of power against Bridget and the trades- unions.

·Cubic-air law.

A blessing to Chinamen to be sent away unless they were pro- tected.

Under the cubic-air ordinance men were arrested, forty at a time, for being in a room which had less than 500 feet of cubic air, and put in gaol where they had not 200 feet. In the letter of the 5th of April, 1876, the Chinese declared their willingness to see Chinese immigration stopped. It would be a blessing to have those here sent away, unless they received the protection of the laws. The strong feeling against the Chi- nese was confined to a small portion of the people.

Chinese labor had added $289,700,000 to the wealth of California,

Mr. Bee went on : Without the Chinese, sufficient labor could not be had to gather in the crops. It costs fifteen cents for white labor to sack a sack of potatoes. A Chinaman does this, sews them up and puts the sacks in a pile for ten cents. The poor man buys his potatoes five cents a sack cheaper in consequence. By Chinese cheap labor Californians can compete with the granaries of the world. A million acres and more of swamp and tule lands had been reclaimed by Chinamen standing up to their waists in soft tule-marsh, and this land produces seventy-five bushels of wheat to the acre. The white man could not be found to go into that ditch. The white boss has to veil his face for the mosquitos.

Mr. BROOKS (on the same side as Mr. Bee) addressed the Committee, and necessarily touched on some points already dealt with. Chinese labor, in building railroads and in reclaiming tule lands, had added

Address of Six Companies to mayor respecting rumor that the Chinese quarter would be attacked by a mob.

BROOKS

#289,700,000 to the wealth of the state. The Chinese went all over the land and made it habitable ; whereas an Irish Catholic servant girl would Domestic servants not go beyond the sound of the bells. They were indispensable to the farmers. The anti-Chinese sentiment was entirely confined to the Irish. Irish sentiment

Mr. BROOKS dwelt further on the need of the Chinaman to develop against Chinese. California, and replied to the charge that they supplied a considerable proportion of the criminal class. He denounced the cubic-air law as par- Cubic-air law. tially administered and oppressive. What was the use of making them pay $10 a piece for sleeping in a place where they chose to sleep, a thing which hurt nobody ?

Mr. PIXLEY pointed out that the friends of the Chinese had widened Not desired to the issue. He and his friends had not asked, nor had public opinion, to exclude China- men from the exclude the Chinese then in California from all the rights which they had rights they had under the treaty. Public opinion had not even gone so far as to exclude under the treaty. Chinese from coming. What they aimed at was that Chinese immigra- Chinese immi- tion should be regulated and restrained. The feeling against the Chinese gration should be so far from being confined to the Irish, was universal. To say that the regulated and restricted. Chinese had been stoned and bruised was a gross exaggeration.

Mr. BEE produced four books, known as the Four Books, the Chinese classics, and which stood in their schools as the first, second, third and fourth readers did in American schools.

WITNESSES.

SAN FRANCISCO, October 23rd, 1876.

FREDERICK F. Low, formerly a member of Congress from California, LOW. Collector at San Francisco, subsequently Governor, and later Minis- ter to China, where he resided for three years and a half, after which he returned to San Francisco in the autumn of 1873, sworn and ex- amined

Was of opinion that the immigration of any people who cannot assimi- Non-assimilation late, amalgamate and become part and parcel of the government and its of Chinese. people is a disadvantage. To prevent such immigration was only possi- ble by special legislation and analogous to that by which the number of passengers in a vessel coming from Europe was limited. The immigrants come principally from the province of Kwang Tung of which Canton is the capital, embarking from the free port of Hong Kong ceded to Great Britain, which essablished a colony on the Island (namely, Victoria). The class of people who emigrate from this port are chiefly laborers : a few merchants being the exception. A "coolie" in China, is simply a " Coolie" defined. " laborer" of the lowest grade, and as applied to immigration is a synonym for contract labor. The wages of this class in Kwang Tung ranges from $3 to $5 per month.

Respecting female immigrants he knows nothing, excepet from public report. There may be some wives of merchants who come, but from inference the larger portion, nine-tenths or nineteen-twentieths, are prosti- tutes, brought over for the purpose of prostitution. Prostitution in China is regarded with more aversion and disgust by respectable Chinese than it is, if possible, by Americans or Europeans ; but with the common class of laborers who emigrate there is a looser opinion regarding it. A graduate after passing his examination, and before he can fill any official position,

Prostitution.

has to prove that none of his family, for so many removes, has ever been guilty of being a public prostitute.

The custom of marriage in China is that parents betroth their children. as advantageously as possible, the children taking no part in the matter." On arriving at a proper age they are married. After a man is married he is allowed to take other wives, perhaps through long custom, but it is more in the nature of purchase than betrothal. A married man who takes a fancy to a daughter of a poor man, who has several daughters, purchases her by giving so many taels, and she becomes the second, third or fourth . wife, but subordinate to the first, on his simply announcing the fact, the children of all being legitimate. The taking of a second or third wife does . not affect the standing of a man in society. Male children are more desired than female, it being considered an imperative duty to have a son to perpetuate the name and raise a family. In thickly populated districts, that is around cities, and where the morals of a certain class are low, there is very little hesitation in destroying female children at early birth, it having a sort of semi-official sanction, although there is a law against it.

The religion of the Chinese is the teachings of Confucius, which might be regarded as a code of morals. On this has been engrafted the Buddhist faith and the Tauist.

The Chinese at home are a most industrious people, all kinds of labor being respectable, the only idle class being the officials. They emigrate for the purpose of making money, with no idea of remaining, there being but few isolated cases of any permanently settling in a foreign country. The government of China does not expatriate its idle or venal class, and on the subject of emigration is indifferent.

If Chinese immigration was limited or cut off entirely the natural out- come would be that the Chinese Government would improve its oppor- tunity to try and limit Americans in China to a similar degree.

In a way Americans in China have more rights than Chinese in America. They are not subject to the Chinese Criminal Code or laws, but to American. If an American commits a civil or criminal offence he is ar- rested by the Chinese authorities and handed over to the consul at the nearest port, who tries him and sentences him under American laws. This is one reason why China cannot be opened up to foreigners as this country is opened up to the Chinese.

Comparison between the posi- tion of Chinese in the United States and citizens of the republic in China.

In discussing the subject with the government, witness said : " Why do you not open up your country and let foreigners come here and go and trade and do what they choose ? What is the use of keeping these lines of demarka- . tion drawn ? The Chinese and all other people come to our country ; they go where they choose, and they trade and traffic and perform labor, and there is no harm comes of it ; the government is just as well off ; it does , not affect us." The prince replied : " When the Chinese go to your country they put themselves under your laws, and if they offend against your laws, or your customs, you punish them. When you come here you bring your law book under your arms, and when you commit an offence against the Chinese you say : 'we do not know you.' We cannot touch you, we can only go to your consuls and ask redress. If your people will come here - and put yourselves under our laws, you may come here and go where you choose, and do what you choose."

Americans have no right to engage in permanent business anywhere except at treaty ports ; but they have a right to travel for purposes of pleasure or business anywhere inland on obtaining a passport from their .

LOW

consul or minister, and are safe in so doing, except in some of the extreme western provinces.

The exterritoriality clause of the treaty is a festering sore and must always continue to be.

No American could trust himself in the empire subject to Chinese laws, the punishments being most cruel and barbarous.

Chinese cannot become citizens of the United States under the present naturalization laws.

They do not assimilate with the people, being of a different civilization. Non-assimilation. Their costume is of a mongrel kind, consisting of civilian boots and pants, with soft hat and coat of their own.

clothing manufac-

A large proportion of their clothing is manufactured in the state ; a few Much of their of the better class may import coats and shoes from China, but the labor- tured in the ing class soon drop into wearing part of our costume. They consume a state. good deal of rice.

Unlimited immigration ought to be discouraged, although up to this Up to 1876 Chinese time (1876) Chinese labor has been of material advantage to the state. tage. labor an advan- In consequence of its insolation, the laboring classes of the eastern states and Europe have not been able to come, on account of inconvenience and expense ; but with the completion of the railroad from this time forward there would probably be sufficient labor to replace the Chinese who return home.

The state would not suffer in its material interest if Chinese immigra- tion should practically cease.

Unlimited importion of Chinese and settling them in colonies, as they do here, by raising competition with free labor does harm, but that harm Harm much has been much exaggerated.

The Chinese at present in the state are necessary. The crop this year Crops could not could not be harvested were it not for their labor, but on economical, without Chinese. be harvested ethnological, and political grounds I am in favor of adopting some feasible and proper means for limiting the number.

Chinese immigration fluctuated in different years, with the demand for labor, from 2,000 to 20,000, and in 1868 the emigration from here was a third of the amount of the arrivals, and in 1871 and 1872 more than half.

In 1852 there were 20,000 arrivals ; 1853, 4,000; 1854, 16,000 ; 1855, Immigration from. 3,000; 1856, 4,000 ; 1857, 5,000; 1858, 5,000; 1859, 3,000; 1860, 1852 to 1875. 7,000; 1861, 8,000 ; 1862, 8,000; 1863, 6,000; 1864, 2,000; 1865, 3,000 ; 1866, 2,000 ; 1867, 4,000 ; 1868, 11,000 ; 1869, 14,000 ; 1870, 10,000 ; 1871, 5,000 ; 1872, 9,000 ; 1873, 17,000 ; 1874, 16,000 ; 1875, 18,000.

Demands for labor in the State caused the increase. During 1873, 1874, and 1875 laborers were imported to work on different railroads. If the demand should diminish it would have the effect of diminishing Chinese immigration.

Chinese were imported during the Koopmanschap year to work in the south to supplant the negroes on the plantations, and some experiments tried with ill results. The Chinamen not being paid, left.

If 10,000 white laborers had been imported to work on the Central A percentage of Pacific Railway, instead of the 10,000 Chinese that were introduced, a majority of them, with the profit of their labor would have remained, whereas the bulk of the Chinamen with the profit of their labor went back Four-fifths of to China. Four-fifths of the grading on the Central Pacific Railway was grading on Cen- performed by Chinese labor. In making levees and digging ditches, much done by Chinese tral Pacific

the white laborers. become settlers.

labor.

The state would not suffer in its material interest if Chinese immi- gration ceased.

exaggerated.

the larger proportion is performed by Chinese, because it is useful labor and can be commanded in any quantity. In reclaiming tule lands it is useful : first, the labor is cheaper ; secondly, it is unhealthy work, and they are not affected by malaria as Anglo-Saxons are. If they had been shut up to white labor it would have taken a much longer time to build these works. They could not have got the labor, and it would have increased the expense very much.

Witness was one of the Commissioners when the Pacific Railway was in course of construction on this side of the Sierra, and had occasion to go upon the road to report. Was on the road when Chinese labor was intro- duced ; started with white labor and came to a stand still. Objection was taken by the foreman, a sharp pushing Irishman, to Chinese labor. The foreman finally consented to put on enough Chinamen to fill dump carts, and a Chinaman to hold a drill, while white men drove the horses and struck the drills. Strobridge, the foreman, saw the progress made by the employment of Chinese, and in less than six months they had Chinese doing everything. They did 80 per cent. as much work as the whites, and were paid $31 a month and boarded themselves. White labor was paid $45 a month and board which was equal to $2 a day.

The Union Pacific Railway was constructed by white labor, no Chinese being employed. The labor market was inexhaustible, if inducement in the way of wages was offered. The employment of Chinese on the Central Pacific Railroad was a question of economy, and getting them in sufficient quantities, and steady. White labor could have been brought from the east by Panama, if sufficient inducement in the way of wages had been offered. Not twenty per cent. difference between Chinese labor and white labor by the day, after they had been at work four months. In many instances Chinese labor is worth more than white, but in hard, strong labor, which requires bone and sinew, white is better than Chinese. The whites are stronger men, but in many farming operations the Chinese can do as much because they are quick and agile. After they learn a thing they will do it over again with greater accuracy and preci- sion than whites, being imitative but not inventive. Hop-picking, straw- berry picking and work of that kind now done by Chinese might open an avenue for boys unemployed. There may be unemployed youthful labor, but it comes as much from the false teaching of our people as anything else. When parents raise a boy, they think he must be a lawyer, or a doctor, or some profession that does not require manual labor. The tendency of servile labor is to prevent white competition and render labor dishonorable. This is the tendency of Chinese labor. Boys will not work with Chinese ; they consider it degrades them.

On being cross-examined, witness said : Chinese labor had not a tendency to degrade the dignity of labor. When a man employs Chinese labor here he employs it as free labor. No similarity between Chinese labor and slave labor.

The Chinese As to the manner by which the Chinese arrive here, from witness's immigration must knowledge of them, and of the poverty of the laboring class, he does not think it possible that they get here by their own means ; they must come here by somebody advancing them the means to pay their passage, they working it out after they get here. They cannot return without the The Six Com- panies. permission of the Six Companies, nor can they purchase a ticket from a steamship company unless they bring a certificate from the head of the Six Companies that they are free from debt.

The contract entered into by them is not a written one, but merely a verbal understanding ; in other words, they say that it is proper

LOW

for a Chinaman to pay his debts before he leaves the country, and they want to see his debts paid. Chinamen get $1 a day here and find them- selves and their lodgings. No doubt it would be pretty hard work for a * white man to sustain himself, and find himself, and board himself and family, in this city, on that amount. Where simple muscle is all that is Where it is a required the Chinaman can beat the white man, considering the different standard of comfort, but where brains and muscles come in the white man man beats the beats the Chinaman. In 1867 the cigar industry was just being developed, and the manufacture of boots and shoes had commenced, and very likely this had something to do with bringing here, in 1868, 1870, 1874 and in 1875, 11,000, 10,000, 16,000, 18,000 Chinese, respectively. In a way the introduction of Chinese labor has the same effect upon the labor market as the introduction of machinery.

The laws of the United States against the importation of servile labor govern the importation of immigrants on board of American vessels, but they cannot operate in Hong-Kong. There, however, it would be impossible for a ship to take on board a cargo of coolies for California, such as are sent to Peru.

Chinese labor in this country is not cheap in comparison with the labor Chinese labor in of the eastern states. No Chinese employed on public buildings, upon cheap ascompared California not the streets, building sewers, or any municipal works of the city. Saw with white labor in the east. only one drunken Chinaman in his life, and that one was in China. A very large percentage read and write a little. In early days whites had come to the country under contract.

Chinese do their banking business by draft or cheque, and export a great deal of merchandise ; buy silver and ship it themselves ; borrow money and keep accounts at the banks. But for them it is doubtful Very little manu- if any manufacturing industry would have been here; it certainly factures but for the Chinese. would have been small as compared with the present. The very fact of their being here and their labor held at a moderate rate, has induced the opening of manufactures, and perhaps now, or shortly, as they can get apprentices at work, Chinese labor can be dispensed with. This result is gradually coming about, quite a percentage of the manu- factories working with white laborers. The Chinese are engaged in shoe- making, tailoring, making cigars, making cigar boxes, overalls, and miners' clothing, besides acting amongst the more moderate-living class, who ·cannot afford white labor, in different household capacities.

It is possible that their presence here has a tendency to prevent labor coming. white immigration from the east.

In the year 1800 the import of opium into China from India was 4,000 Opium. chests of 133 pounds each ; in 1869, 85,000 chests were imported. This includes 32,000 chests smuggled from Hong-Kong into China, and 53,000 chests actually imported. In the year 1800 the domestic production of opium was nothing; in 1869 the estimated production was 75,000 chests, making a total consumption for 1869 of 160,000 chests, 21,000,000 tbs., or 10,500 tons. The value of the opium imported was $68,000,000, equal to 75 per cent. of all the tea and silk exported.

question of mere muscle, the China- white laborer.

Chinese possibly prevent white

KING

SAN FRANCISCO, October, 23rd, 1876.

THOMAS H. KING, merchant of San Francisco, ten years a resident of China active man in Consul's Office at Hong Kong, assisted and aided in placing Chinese on board, and a traveller through that portion of China from whence these immigrants come, sworn and examined :

All Chinese coolies embark at Hong Kong. Have superintended the The laws of the United States and the Consul's dea- lings with coolies. examination of immigrants to comply with the coolie laws of the United States Government, which law enables the Consul to exact large fees from every coolie, which the ships pay, and requires them to charge more charter, money. The Consul also, having the option, can make obstacles and compel the Chinese to pay large fees to remove. The consuls also require many conditions from ships in the shape of large unofficial fees, or indirect revenue, which makes the coolie-trade to California a very remunerative one for consuls, consequently it is their interest to continue Nearly all Cali- fornia emigrants it ; and especially is this true of the women. Nearly all, with the appear to be under exception of a few boys, or those who had been to California before, contract. appeared to be under contract, seldom knowing the purport more than that they were going for three or five years, for as many dollars per month, to labor as directed, often knowing that they were to be cared for if sick and sent back at the expiration of their contract, or their bodies if dead, but otherwise ignorant as to be easily scared if any one intimated they were being deceived. Sometimes they refused to go on board at Hong Kong, as was the case with a few cargoes a few years ago going to New Orleans, when they nearly all jumped overboard some drowning in the harbor. They often abscond from their contractors bringing them to Contracts. Hong Kong. Have often seen their contracts, and had them translated. They often bear the seal of some petty Chinese official of the interior, and state that their relatives or friends pledge for their security, and that the contract will be kept by the coolie; contractor advancing money to be repaid out of small earnings with interest often as high as five per cent. per month, and that pay as due shall be given or remitted to China. Nearly all who come to California are from two districts near the city of Canton-Sinong and Sinwai. They are always at variance and often fight. There are few artisans among them, they being mostly ignorant agricul- Mostly laborers of tural or other laborers of the very lowest classes. Most of those who are the lowest class. brought here come to supply the coolie-broker or contractor who hires them out. They send their agents to China to pick them up, with credits to disburse their expenses and advance money on contracts. Others are largely those who, earning a few hundred or thousand dollars, return to China, and bring in proportion to their means bands of coolies under contracts, and these are often sub-let to Chinese as well as Americans here. " On their arrival they are packed like hogs to such companies, having his " contract viséd, and commences his fees to insure his care of sick, and " return, dead or alive, but not his pay from the contractor, but that he " shall fill his part, if able to compel him, the coolies to do it, or prevent " his return until he does. When breaking his contract the companies" " spies hound him to prevent his return to China, by arranging with the " steamship company, or through Chinese in the steamship company's " employ, to prevent his getting a ticket, and if obtained by others for " him he will be forcibly stopped on the day of sailing by the large force " of the Six Companies' highbinders, who can always be seen guarding them. " Highbinders are men employed by these companies here to hound and " spy upon these Chinese, and pursue them if they do not comply with

Highbinders.

KING

" their contract, as they see fit to judge it." According to newspaper reports these men have been known to assassinate. There is no dis- tinguishing mark upon them only they are rather better dressed than coolies. All sailing vessels to China have conditions in their charters All sailing vessels to take no Chinese but those supplied by the companies. All coolies ditions to take no have charter con- returning to China complain of the extortions, deception, and arbi- Chinese but those trary conduct of the companies here. Of late the companies have companies. supplied by the made a reputation by modifying the contracts, so that a coolie when successful can earn higher wages, but this only stimulates him to greater dissipation, so that he is still kept in debt to the contractor or in his bondage. No force is used in bringing them to this country, but a part of them come very unwillingly, being inveighled here by these Chinese contractors, taking the objectionable employment of a voyage as a means to get rid of debt or to support their friends-to better their condition in China. Pamphlets containing all sorts of stories are circulated by con- tractors in the districts where the coolies are obtained, about golden times Contractors cir- and chances offering, which are read to most of the coolies who cannot culate in China read. From observation and investigation during a number of years I times in California roseate accounts of am satisfied that it is a system of bondage labor, which is attested by the and elsewhere. mortality among them by dissipation and misery. Although the condition of the coolies, generally speaking, is improved over that in their own country, it is nevertheless a competition which is fatal to the American Chinese competi- or European laborer, and but few contractors and companies, and those only tion fatal to white who supply them with necessaries and luxuries, derive any further benefit labor. from them. Of the women but very few, rarely any, come of their own will, but they are bought in China, generally from brothels, to be sold here on arrival, or held by importers'in brothels here. In a few rare instances there are some who send to China direct for mistresses, rather than rely on the limited market here. The coolie women, or bawds, make Women. a business travelling to and from China conducting this trade, and not- withstanding the recent outcry against it, the stream continues from China nevertheless, vid Portland, Oregon. The white prostitutes are brought Prostitution. here from the east under much the same circumstances, but they are more or less free ; but these are so many chattels .. Many are kept in slavish life and they often pass from one to the other, men or women, by purchase, kept in debt by advances, and when free often sell themselves for long periods. They are all inveterate gamblers. As passengers on board ship they are dirty in their habits ; very few before embarking Dirty ; lice ; itch. but have lice in both hair and clothes, and a large part of them have the itch. Frequently they offer to embark with the small-pox and venereal Small-pox ; vene- diseases. The practice on ship-board of sodomy and pollution is common. real disease ; They seldom use alcoholic drinks, but all use tobacco ; few use opium. sodomy. Those who have been here before use opium and alcoholic drinks. Few come who have passed thirty years of age. Contracts and bonds are given on ship-board for their gambling debts, contracted on the way, to the contractors or to some man who will file his claim on arrival. Is «convinced that no others come here except from the districts mentioned, their immediate vicinity, and the banks of the river Canton and the island at its mouth, as well as Hong Kong and Macao. This section ("Two Population of the Kwang ") contains many millions, in fact greater than the population Two Kwang. of the United States, the population of the city of Canton alone being greater than that of all the Pacfic states. "The principal "reason why other sections of China do not come here is the en- ." mity and the cause of trouble arising between the two sections or

KING

Chinese dialects. " adjoining counties, as now here, and the greater ignorance of this " country, because those speak a different dialect from the other sections " of China." The dialect differs almost every hundred miles apart in China. The written language is the same, but the words differ. The Commissioner to the Centennial from China, in passing through here, could only receive a deputation from the Six Companies through an interpreter. He could not talk with the other Chinese. They afterwards communicated with him in the written language. The official language in China is called by foreigners the mandarin dialect, court language. They communicate with the lower class only through interpreters. The European and American residents live in a separate section from the Chi- nese at Canton and Hong Kong, only a few of the Chinese merchants who, deal with them being allowed to live there. As to the effect which the stoppage of the coolie-trade would have on our commerce there is but little or no knowledge outside of the districts they come from, and the American in China is only known for buying tea and silk, and selling cotton drilling and cloths, coal oil, and gin-seng, and being a "small fightee man." The Chinese say that the American in China oppresses them less, fight with them less, make less demonstration, have less men-of-war, less naval forces than any other nation. They say he is a good trader, but a very " small fightee man." Gin-seng is used for medicine. Chinese in one sec- tion are not tolerant of those in another. If the information respecting this country is disseminated further it will be of no consequence, as the immigration from other sections will not be increased. Those here cannot in justice to our own requirements be summarily disposed of to the detri- ment of their rights. Our teas and silks would come along as cheap as now, and China has no other market to obtain her flour and shells. A large portion of the traffic and trade which the Chinese have the credit of mak- - ing here and paying duties is largely used by Americans, which is shipped® into the interior. Diminishing or stopping coolie cargoes would be more than met by the increased freight before a year elapsed.

Effect of restric- tion on trade and commerce.

In order to escape punishment they agree to emigrate.

They come to make money and intend to return.

Employments in which the Chinese are engaged.

Only the Six Companies know how many Chinese are here. To avoid punishment at home they agree to come here. The time of year most active in contracting for them by coolie-brokers is during the winter months, when scarcity of agricultural labor weighs heaviest, and then during the months of February, March, April and May. They come in greater numbers during these four months than all the rest of the year. Both sailing ships and steamships constantly carry from twenty-five per cent. to thirty per cent. more than the law allows, the steamers carrying them on three decks when the law allows only two decks. Steamers limit their lug- gage but not sailing vessels, consequently the latter bring sometimes ten- fold the luggage, which is but cargo smuggled in free of duty for the coolie- brokers. Frequently opium, and silk, and cotton goods, and often native alcoholic drinks, are brought in in this way. It is a common occur- rence with almost every vessel when searched to find the Chinese in possession of opium. They come to earn a certain sum of money and return. They never care to learn our customs or habits or follow them. They know the police and courts punish or protect them, and that the use of money by the employment of counsel enables them often to escape punishment and to commit crime with greater impunity. They have no respect for oaths ; and the English courts in Hong Kong never rely on them. As domestics they plod along in drudgery ; they are not so valuable as formerly. Before, many, including artisans', occupations offered, but of late they canvass the cities as tinkers, chair and crockery

KING

menders, drive carts, and act as hostlers and gardeners, and large numbers are pedlers of fruit and vegetables and provisions imported by Chinese, such as rice and oil. They do the largest part of the work of the Pacific Do the largest states, carry on fisheries of the inland waters, are largely employed in of the Pacific part of the work agricultural pursuits, often are proprietors of garden and fruit farms, coast. and largely engaged in gold mining, generally working out poor or abandoned diggings or claims. In this city they find employment in factories, and in all work not requiring steam power. Learning the Soon set up for- trades they soon set up for themselves in the craft, and by their cheap themselves. mode of living soon control such industries as shoe and cigar-making and other kinds. They are the only scavengers of the city. Of late they have entered into trades as masons, carpenters, painters, tinsmiths, etc., keep stores of their own and sell American commodities. It applies more to this city than to the interior. Their character as laborers is Labor well but plodding, attentive to learn, stimulated by hope of getting a bonus or spend viciously. higher wages which is generally used in dissipation and vice. Without tasks they are slow, indolent and careless, requiring constant watching But without task are slow and and urging. They will only imitate, having but little originality or judg- indolent. ment about their work, and will evade or slight work with or without a Imitative. task. Trades they learn, and Chinese factory-work is hired from con- Will evade or slight work. tractors who receive the money for them and govern all disputes, the con- tractors agreeing to furnish a given number of men or boys. Learning the trades at the expense of the Americans they soon go to work for Chinese or on co-operative plans, as seen by the many small factories in the city, where they huddle in the work rooms, eating and sleeping in the same space in which they work, under or above ground, in filth and disease. As domestics, they receive about ten per cent. less than Euro- Pay as domestics, peans ; as hostlers and gardeners, from thirty to fifty per cent. ; as laborers, hostlers, agricultural laborers, twenty to thirty per cent. ; as common laborers, artisans. fifty to sixty per cent. ; as artisans, from fifty per cent. and upwards less ; as laundrymen and pedlers they earn about half that which sup- ports white labor here. The labor market here is not overstocked. They are fast closing upon all such pursuits, stopping white Europeans or Not only stop Americans from coming here, as well as driving out those who have come white immigra- and have been engaged for many years past. As a rule of those coming here out of every 800 some 740 show distinct marks of having had the small pox ; on going back there is a greater proportion than that, showing that a great many of them must have had it here. They inoc- ulate for small-pox in China. They frequently die of it here, and get a burial permit and are buried, without any one knowing anything about it. They are not attended by any physician. Cases are common in China Filthy and where they have it two or three times. Their places of abode are filthy diseased. here as are their persons ; they seldom bathe. A majority of them are afflicted with skin, venereal, and similar diseases ; but their condition here is above their condition in their own country. They have no regard for sanitary rules, from the highest to the lowest. In the immediate vicinity of Canton there are a dozen outlying cities and villages, including the section that this people come from, besides Macao, Hong Kong, Swatow, Namoa, Amoy, Chinchew, Hacitan, Fuhchau, Tamsuie, and Keelung on the Island of Formosa, the only open ports there ; Nanking, Cheichang, Ningpo, Cheepo, Yangchau, Shanghai, Suchau, Hang-chau, Chefoo, Nuchang, Tien-tsin. The extremes of these places is 2,000 miles. All these places were visited by the witness who saw all classes from man- darins down, and penetrated many miles into the interior without

tion but drive away white labor. Small-pox.

KING

hindrance, and on the above excursions he bases his statement as to the sanitary condition of the Chinese. The Japanese are a far more cleanly people.

Family life ; women. Not half a dozen legitimate families can be found in the Pacific states among the Chinese. Often women who have been bought bear children, who are cared for and treated as their children, care being bestowed to raise them, especially if males. The companies only know how many Chinese women are in this country and they never tell, fearing an outcry. Nurseries for prostitution a Few come except from Chinese brothels or raised for prostitution in China, business in China. which is a business there. On arrival they are sold to live with some one man in the city or the interior or to live in some brothel in the city. As a rule they are young, often not more than thirteen years old, accompanied by less diseases on arrival than the men, but mentally they are very weak, acting like slaves, with but little or no education. The bawds often advance money to prostitutes in China, who are brought under contracts like men, all of which passes through companies here the same as men. Bought and sold as applied to women means for periods not for life, yet their contract is called a " Bill of Sale." It is a common practice in China Common practice for foreigners as well as Chinese to purchase them and get a bill of sale. in China to pur- chase women. Those coming here are for periods, it being more advantageous to the owners, urging them to greater efforts for gain for a few years, only to find at the end that it has induced dissipation and misery and deeper in debt and bondage than ever. The small-footed women are called aristo- cratic, but many of them are poor. These women are bought and sold by bawds, never by parents, as a matter of speculation. It is customary in China for the husband to pay a dowry with his first wife, the others being handmaids or concubines, all matters of purchase.

Origin of the Six · Companies.

Originally the companies were the agents of Chinese firms of Hong Kong. The principals there were Wo Hang and Hing Wa, portrait painters at Hong Kong in 1850 and 1851, who conducted it many years afterward. They were the principals in opening the passenger trade and sending men here to be hired out. Afterwards some other Chinese merchants were added, and they requiring that some agents should be here to collect the advances on contracts, their agents banded together for mutual protection against the coolies evading their agreements and to keep others out of the business ; also to ensure that the coolies should be returned, dead or alive, at the termination of his contract, and to give them confidence before starting from China that so important a part would be fulfilled and that they were here to carry it out. Having these Chinese to supply they became importers for them and all kindred commodities that they could sell to Americans ; and their business growing with their wealth, they became a power to hire immigrants, and they would intimidate, overawe, and punish secretly the ignorant for any infrac- tion of their contracts. They also wished to prevent any Chi- nese coming here except through them. They act as go-betweens and arbitrators and judges between the Chinese, and punish offences. They collect regular fees for purposes of registration and for con- ducting the business of attending to the coolie contracts and their enforcement, but they never guarantee the payment to the coolie by the contractor. They are supposed to defend those who pass through their respective companies if in trouble. They are the medium through which the coolies remit money to China, profiting greatly thereby ; they also continue to largely supply coolies with goods which they import from China. The companies are firms not corporations. They are known as the Six Companies from simply having banded together to monopolize the

They act as agents .and go-betweens.

KING

coolie traffic. Their source of profit is the registration fee, the contractor being the party paying it, the coolies knowing little or nothing about it. For this fee they agree to see the Chinaman returned to China at the end of his contract ; if he dies to return his bones ; to look after him if he is sick, and attend to his interests generally. All Chinese here can understand labor contracts are Manner in which each other. The companies do not take them all to one place. If a man made and carried out. wants to hire 500 Chinamen he goes to the head of one of these companies and contracts for so many men. As to the responsibility of these com- panies and the American contractor to see the laborers paid, witness knew gentlemen who came from the east and hired fifty or sixty or one hundred men as laundrymen, and when they got east they refused to comply with their contract. The money due them in the east was supposed always to be paid to the contractor here, except a certain percentage which was remitted. When they refused to comply with their contract there was no means by which they could get their money. In some instances they did not get it, the American claiming a violation of the contract, and they did not know enough to sue for their services on their individual account for work which they had done. The companies do not guarantee the coolie that he shall get his pay. The companies become individual firms and contractors. As a mercantile firm they would make a contract and pass it through the company perhaps. Merchants advance them their provisions and the Chinese contractor collects the pay for their labor.

The Chinese know nothing of our institutions, except the prisons. They do not know or care about citizenship, only to evade the merest duties or burdens of it. They are nearly all agricultural or other laborers, rarely artisans. As a rule they are ignorant, slavish, submissive, and often brutish in their manners, living in hovels, poorly fed, worse clad, over-worked, profane and immoral in the submissive, Ignorant, slavish, extreme. Very few people that witness had met in China, except brutish, ill-fed, ill-clad, profane, missionaries, understood the Chinese language. Those who do learn the immoral. language are more from the northern part of China, such as Shanghai. It is a very rare thing for a merchant living there his lifetime to learn the language. The Chinese have no conception or idea of free government, or the right of an individual man to be heard and be a part of same. They are a slavish people. As diplomats, they have evaded, whenever Diplomacy. possible, all treaty obligations that they have undertaken. When they agreed to hold negotiations at Tien-tsin, and the English and others Treachery. were going up for that purpose, they were all massacred without any warning. When W. H. Seward stated they were the shrewdest diplo- mats he ever met, witness thinks that he was rather too old and infirm to judge and properly understand the question. Respecting their pro- fanity, not knowing the language, could not say whether they swear much ; but there were commonly-known vulgar expressions and profane vul- garity which were the first things acquired, more especially in intercourse with them commercially. They swear in the English courts at Hong Their Christianity Kong. There are many professing Chrstianity, but not one in a thousand is sincere, missionaries themselves declaring that they do not believe them sincere. Does not know whether the Chinese residents of Hong Kong become British subjects under the naturalization law, but there are certain terms provided by British law which entitle them to protection. When they visit Canton and are arrested for some offence previously com- Status of Chinese mitted, or for some debt, the English Consul at Canton generally succeeds Kong. residents of Hong in getting them released if they are residents of Hong Kong. There is no legislative body at Hong Kong ; it is a crown colony, and no municipal

Chinese know nothing of our institutions except prisons.

13

KING

Value of human life in China. elective bodies. The value of human life in Chinese eyes is very low. They are cruel, selfish, and ungrateful ; liars and dishonest in the extreme, the only exception being where it is against their interest. They hoard and bury money in fear of officials and persecutors among themselves and of Punishment cruel. thieves. Their mode of punishment is of a summary kind, cruel and barbarous. They have no long imprisonments, except to compel money payments. They treat their women badly, and place them in a very low Gambling. scale. As to gamblers, his knowledge obtained by going through a Chinese city and seeing at almost every short distance open gambling houses ; saw them going on with their gambling in Chinatown here much the same as in China, although it is said the police are very strict against it. In Hong Kong the authorities license gambling houses for Chinese alone, and do not allow foreigners to go into them ; but in Chinese places, in the open market, gamblers' tables meet you at almost every turn. Respecting prostitution, witness does not know of any street-walking here among Chinese prostitutes, nor did he ever observe them in China soliciting men on the streets ; here they solicit them out of the windows-window- tapping. Along the water-front of the city of Canton they have large boats or vessels, a hundred or more feet long and half as broad. They are flat boats, upon which are built most gorgeously fitted-up houses of one or one and a half stories high, which are called "flower boats." They con- tain sometimes from ten to twenty prostitutes, and are places of resort. They are frequently taken by the better classes up and down the river upon trips of debauch, and are known as floating brothels ; but there are also on shore numberless quantities of prostitutes. Sodomy is a habit. Sometimes thirty or forty boys leaving Hong Kong apparently in good health, before arriving here would be found to be afflicted about the anus with venereal diseases, and on questioning the Chinese doctors to disclose what it was, they admitted that it was a common practice among them.

Prostitution.

"Flower boats."

Sodomy.

Indifference to human life. With regard to their care for life, witness never heard that it was a merit for a Chinaman to save life, and never heard of it being practised. Has seen Chinese floating by in the water or clinging to the wreck and their own boats pass them and go to the wreck to get plunder. In 1859, went to the rescue of an American ship, the Vancouver, in the Shanghai River ; found around vessels known to be plying for hire and carrying cargo as their vocation; had to open a battery on them to drive them off ; they had driven the crew off and taken possession and were plundering her. In another case, the wreck of the Lucky Star, Captain Nelson, on the Island of Formosa, they not only plundered the vessel and robbed the crew, but they stripped the captain and his wife and marched them many miles naked. Does not think the Chinese imperial Chinese imperial authorities have the power to protect foreigners who travel into the authorities cannot interior from assaults and indignities; nor does he think they have the protect foreigners in the interior. power to enforce the treaties with the eastern powers in the outlying pro- vinces. Very little is known at the court of the doings of foreigners. In China, as a rule, very few are educated beyond a few characters, and sel- dom without the aid of a scribe are they able to read, much less make out their contracts ; when made they take every advantage and commit every wrong under it. To the credit of the Chinese here, as far as it goes, Commercial character. witness observes that the companies here have more credit in this respect and among this community than their principals have in China, for one of their largest principals at Hong Kong, Wo Hang, is not able to make a charter, and he is considered so wanting in faith that he would not be trusted. The contract made with the coolies that leave Macao for labor

KING

in Cuba or Peru is of the same nature as the contract made with the coolies Coolie trade with that leave Hong Kong for California, only made by a Peruvian or Cuban Cuba and Peru. agent instead of with a Chinaman. There is a treaty between the Chi- nese Empire and Peru by which they carry on the coolie trade, also with the United States. A coolie can be brought here by stating at the Ameri- can consulate at Hong Kong that he enters into his contract voluntarily. In the case of coolies going to Peru or to Cuba, their ships are fitted as prisons, with bars and grates, the same as slave-ships were fitted, and with much larger crews. There are never only a certain number allowed on deck, and they are treated with all the surveillance as if they were prisoners. It is a common thing for them, when opportunity offers, to take the ships and destroy them and escape from their bond- age. The coolies say they go in these ships voluntarily. The shipment of coolies to Peru has since been stopped, as it was found out to be slave- labor, and when runners or pimps were caught in Canton inveighling them away they were decapitated by the Chinese authorities for engaging in the coolie traffic. There is no coolie traffic in this form carried on be- tween this port and any ports in China. The coolie agrees to come here and work for a certain period for a certain rate of wages-$3 to $5 per month, very seldom more than that. Very few who come here have families. They come here to work to pay debts of a doubtful character contracted at home.

SAN FRANCISCO, October 24th, 1876.

Respecting small-footed women, as a rule small feet are a sign of Women. their being of a higher class ; yet a considerable number are seen in their brothels, and among them the very lowest classes of street laborers and beg- gars. [Witness here produced photographs taken in China showing that the small-footed women as well as the large-footed ones are so engaged.] The people coming here are not as fair representatives of quiet and order as could be had from other sections of China. Every war with foreigners has Class emigrating: arisen in the immediate vicinity where these people come from. Those sec- to Pacific coast .. tions have exhibited the most horrible means of warfare, such as attempting to poison the whole foreign communities of Hong Kong during the last war. From these districts come, with few exceptions, all the professional pirates of the China seas. They prey upon foreign and native crafts alike, and frequently plunder places along their own coast. The record shows that nearly all foreign vessels attacked or captured in China have been attacked by the people of these districts at the mouth of the Canton River. In fact the people of these districts furnish largely Canton district the brothels and the banditti to other ports on the China coast, the men ditti and pros- grows the ban- being dreaded wherever they go. Some of these pirates come to this titutes for other. country. Here is one of the worst of their pirates [producing photograph] places. belonging to that class. He came here. Have known him for a long time as a pirate. Here are also photographs of that class of people among them. The riots at Tien-tsin originated in Canton.

The principals of the Six Companies are at Hong Kong where messages were addressed to them at the time of the agitation to stop immigration. It is called a hospital. It is also known as a secret league of the Chinese in a British colony, composed largely of Chinese engaged in the coolie traffic, as well as of members of the Chinese commercial community there, for carrying secret measures of their own instead of through the lawful channels. They are there known as the defenders of those committing

KING

crimes, but not caring for the helpless. Knowledge of Six Companies gained from long and patient investigation of hundreds of men who have been both connected with them here and at Hong Kong, during long voyages at sea, and reading accounts of them in the Hong Kong papers where they are under an English colony and an English government.

SAN FRANCISCO, November 18th, 1876.

Chinese in the Straits Settle- ments.

On being recalled witness said : The Chinese go under contract with Chinese as coolies to the "Straits Settlements" the same as here, but in far larger numbers, and to such an extent have they swarmed over those countries that they not only mononplize the artisan as well as the agricul- tural pursuits there, but they also own, manage, and conduct nearly all trades and mercantile businesses, as well as most of the large fleets of European style, sailing and steam vessels, trading to many parts of the globe.

The continued immigration of Chinese to those places requires a large fleet of European sailing and steam vessels to convey them yearly. Chinese junks also are largely employed in carrying coolies besides.

"The Chinaman in ;Siam.

In Siam, also, the Chinese coolie system has produced to the native population no less disastrous results. The commerce and trade of all kinds, with but little exception, has passed from the possession of the Siamese into the hands of Chinese, they also monopolizing the carrying trade to the exclusion of natives.

The above will largely apply to the other adjacent countries, as Java, Sumatra, Borneo, and Luzon.

Chinese contrac- tors for labor.

Europeans or Americans visiting China for the purpose of obtaining Chinese emigrants have never been able to obtain them, unless through Chinese contractors ; and in every case where the coolie has not passed through the hands of the Six Companies he has violated his contract. Several years since the cotton-growers of the south sent their deputies to Hong Kong, who after many months there endeavoring to make con- tracts with coolies direct failed to do so ; and at last, through the coolie- brokers, obtained a few ship-loads. After paying them, large numbers deserted the vessel, some drowning in the harbor in doing so, evidently never intending to keep their contract, or any contract, when not bound to do so by the fearful penalties to which they are said to be liable under Experiment in the their system both at home and abroad, where it is carried as far as among themselves. I have heard that for no other reason but that these coolies would not keep their labor contracts after arrival at New Orleans the experiment was not repeated. So absolute was their bondage that their labor contracts were pledged to the ship for their conveyance. I have known Mr. Koopmanschap state that all his engagements with the Chinese were much of that nature ; he could not rely upon them ; he could not engage them in China except through coolie contractors.

Contract system.

In investigating this contract system I have found that a large portion of them, nearly one-half, who come here are under contract to coolies gone back from here, who, taking the result of their labors, three, four, or five hundred dollars, are enabled to go to China and there hire ten or a dozen under this system ; and the ignorant coolie remains in a state of semi-slavery for the years of his bondage and at low rates.

In Japan.

In Japan, although for many years after the opening to foreigners to live and trade there, the Chinese were not allowed except as ser- vants of Europeans or Americans, yet they have succeeded in wresting

southern states.

KING-

from foreigners, who surreptitiously got them a footing in the country, its Chinese have foreign import and export trade to China as well as other countries, until the most affluent made themselves now it is conceded the Chinese are the most affluent so engaged there, Japan. merchants in and the streets of their largest city of foreign trade, Yokohama, is ablaze with their business sign-boards at every turn.

This state of things is not because the Chinese merchant has any Low standard of superior mercantile ability than our own; but it is their ability to bring comfort. into force their cheap mode of living, whereby they can compete or afford to transact business at far less and make a profit. Their presence in the countries mentioned has not had the effect of elevating their lower classes, but the contrary effect on their better classes, as our manufacturers are finding out now to their cost.

Chinese competition is not only with the common laborer, but it is also with the American merchants. The Chinese who used formerly to import through American firms do that themselves, owing largely to competition.

SAN FRANCISCO, October 24th, 1876.

JOHN L. MEARES, physician and health officer of the city of San Francisco, MEARES. since 1st of May, sworn and examined :

As to the physical condition of the Chinese they are not equal to the white man, not being capable of doing the same amount of heavy labor.

They live in large tenement houses many of which are unfit entirely for Sanitary. habitation, and ought to be declared so. They live crowded in small rooms without ventilation, and as they often have diseases of a contagious nature they are exposed to it, breathing vitiated air all the time.

With regard to the epidemic (small-pox) which has been prevailing Smallpox. since the 24th of May, seventy-four deaths have been reported among the Chinese. When they die of small-pox they are removed to Cooper's alley, Bull Run alley, or some other place of deposit for their dead. It is impossible to ascertain where they die. On this account their houses cannot be disinfected, and they are a perpetual source of contagion. Occasionally a case is discovered in the basement, where there is a hall opening upon the street ; one case in particular I found of a Chinaman who had been sick for fourteen days and was then dying. During all this time the poison was going through the hall to the street. I called a meeting of the heads of the Six Companies and told them they were con- cealing cases of small-pox, and that it was absolutely necessary to do some- thing. They promised they would correct this, and reported three or four cases the next two or three days, but stopped from that time. The cause Small-pox epide- of the existing contagion of small-pox among the whites can be mic arose in traced to the Chinese quarter. I do not think we should have Chinatown. had an epidemic here if it had not been for the concealment of these cases in Chinatown. It may be communicated by the atmosphere becom- ing infected, or through clothing taken to an infected house for washing, remaining there two or three days and absorbing the poison. Where small-pox becomes epidemic in cities where no Chinese reside, it is caused through the neglect of the local authorities. In the east the disease can be sporadic in the winter and only occasionally epidemic, and it is rarely epidemic in the summer time ; but here it becomes epidemic without regard to the season of the year. It is entirely different from yellow fever, for if that were brought here it would die out.

In fumigating the Chinese quarter by order of the city government I found the condition to be inconceivablerrible. I found these people living in big tenement houses, and large numbers crowded in individual rooms and under ground, without proper ventilation, with bad drainage, and a great deal of filth, the odors from which were horrible. You go into a room which was originally higher than this room. They will have bunks all around ; sometimes they will have a platform in one corner, extending over one-fourth of it, not more than three or four feet in depth, and numbers of them will sleep on that. I found cases of small- pox concealed in places like that. Found one case in a box, probably eight feet long, three feet wide, and four feet high, in a corner of the hall. I supposed it was a cupboard, a place to keep something to eat or clothing in. They will not tell you the truth about these things, and from my own observation, taking them as a class, you cannot believe them on oath when it is their interest to lie at all. Under ground they live in bunks, in great filth, and no ventilation at all.

I cannot tell the amount of opium-smoking or opium cousumption, but if you go anywhere in the Chinese quarter you will find them smoking opium. In smoking opium they generally lie down with the paste and a pipe and a little light in the hand with which they touch it occasionally. Frequently half a dozen or more are lying about, and sometimes you will find twenty people smoking together.

I have never seen any class of people so indifferent to the sufferings of their fellow creatures. For instance, take the little hospitals in Aleck alley : you will find there small rooms horribly filthy, and Chinamen dying of consumption and other chronic diseases, lying in their filth, with no person to take care of them, and in a state of starvation. They will beg of you for five or ten cents to buy something to eat. They ask for bread and if you hand one a piece of stale bread he will devour it. They appear to be perishing of hunger ; and yet these are the places procured, and run, and sustained by these Six Companies, for benevolent purposes as they call it. You may go into one of these hospitals to-day and not find a sick man in it, but to-morrow morning there will be three dead China- men there, and no one will know where they came from. As for attendants I have never seen anybody acting as such. I suppose somebody goes there sometimes and does something for them, but it looks as if they were starved. If a person not accustomed to those things opens the door and goes in, it almost knocks him down, the odor is so terrible. It is a notorious fact that the Chinese are indifferent to the sufferings of their brethren. I have never seen any women in these hospitals.

Balconies, roofs, sheds and other buildings built about a house are generally utilized. They utilize every particle of room they can. Fre- quently I find bunks to sleep in in places of that sort. The cooking is generally done in a kitchen, principally in a large range, all using it in common. I have never seen any cooking in a sleeping room.

There is a large amount of venereal disease among them, especially among the females. The so-called leprosy they have here is simply the result of generations of syphilis, transmitted from one generation to another. Some months ago the authorities sent back to China thirteen leprous cases. I know of two other cases here. The con- dition of these leprous persons is horrible ; some of them with their noses eaten off. Leper means " scaly. " It first commences on the extremities, a little round, circular spot, red and shining, and then a scale forms on that, and it is a succession of scales forming and dropping off all the time, and after a while another adjoining that, and so on, until it

MEARES

will cover the whole body. I have seen mnen at the hospitals like that- - Leprosy .. some of those we sent back. Their feet dropped off by dry gangrene, and their hands were wasted and attenuated, and their finger nails dropped off. It is a matter of opinion, but I doubt it very much, if a man had con- nection with a leprous woman that such connection would produce conta- gion or cause disease to the individual. As an evidence of this these leprous cases had been in hospital for years, and the employees in contact with it constantly. In the Sandwich Islands they are compelled to Leprosy not isolate cases of leprosy, because they do not want this disease transmitted contagious. from one generation to another; but in China or Honolulu you do not find white people afraid of taking this disease, and the best authorities say that it is not contagious.

Syphilis appears to be worse with the Chinamen because they are not Syphilis. treated for it, and it is handed down from one generation to another, until it assumes a tertiary form and presents a horrible appearance ; but the primary syphilis which people contract I do not believe is any worse in Chinamen than in the white man or negro.

Opium-smoking I should say was very general. I do not think it is Opium-smoking. any worse than excessive drinking, but excess in opium-smoking will degrade more rapidly than excess in drinking. I think opium-smoking in Chinatown is better for us than drinking alcohol, for if they drank liquor to excess I do not know what would become of us. When they smoke opium they are inoffensive, so far as we are concerned.

There have been 202 deaths among the whites from small-pox, and up Small-pox. to this time, since the 19th May, there have been 1,002 cases reported --- three cases concealed. I think it was generally understood that there was an epidemic in Central America during last February, March, April and May. It prevails pretty much in all those South American countries. It prevailed here as an epidemic in 1868-69; I do not know whether it originated in the Chinese quarter. In Philadelphia, in 1872, there was an epidemic, but I have no personal knowledge respecting it. I cannot say that I know that it always exists in large cities.

A disinfectant is an antiseptic that will arrest the decay of animal or vegetable matter, or will destroy that germ which is the seat of contagion. I have often thought that one reason of the Chinamen being so largely Why Chinamen exempt from some of our contagious diseases, as scarlet fever, diptheria, exempt from scarlet fever, and measles, perhaps, was that they live in an atmosphere of smoke, diptheria, measles, That, however, does not protect them from this specific poison small-pox ; but I believe that this smoking of opium, and the inhalation of it con- stantly, and tobacco smoke, and foul air, are deleterious to their health. A great many of them die of consumption-lung disease. I look upon Many dic of lung them as a class as thoroughly protected against small-pox as any other disease. class of people living. Every person in China is inoculated. It is compulsory. I do not think the practice of inoculation is carried on here. They may do it in infancy. Vaccination is not practised here among them.

Respecting the cubic-air law, I look upon it as exceedingly defective. ('ubic-air law I do not think that a small space in this climate engenders disease to defective. the extent it would in eastern climates in the summer. If we had the heat of the east here we should have a plague almost every year in the Chinese quarter.

In the under ground places already mentioned they have passages which Overcrowding. go from one street or alley to another, and wherever I have been I found people sleeping in these places. I found in small rooms large numbers

with their bunks built around. They seem to care less about ventilation than any other people I have ever known.

From personal knowledge, I cannot say whether smoking opium fills our. prisons and gaols to the extent that whiskey does ; nor do I think it makes them vicious and quarrelsome ; nor does it increase our taxes in com- parison with whiskey drinking.

Chinese immigra- tion if unchecked bound to increase.

Considering the advantages the Chinese have here, and with such a population as China, I think they are bound to extend all over the country. Chinadom is extending in this city and cuts off the most desirable pro- perty-North Beach-from the business portion, and to reach that hand- some portion of the city the street-cars have to pass through Chinadom, which makes it very objectionable to ladies and gentlemen going through ..

I do not regard our health ordinances as sufficient. We have four- Sanitary machin- permanent inspectors, but during epidemics we appoint more. We have ery defective. now thirteen or fourteen. There is no regular inspection of those quarters any more than any other portion of the city. Nuisances are reported at the health office, but so far as Chinatown is concerned nuisances are rarely reported. On that account for the last eight months we have had a special inspector for that quarter, but we could use profitably all the time three times as many as we have. The abatement of nuisances pro- perly belongs to the health department, in connection with the police. If we had health laws here the same as in Boston, giving power to the Board of Health to declare any house unfit for habitation, it would be

very beneficial to us. From the natural location of the Chinese quarter it ought to be healthy. With proper police and health regulations the evils might be largely abated ; it would be the means of scattering them which would be a great deal better for us. I cannot tell accurately the death-rate, but it is less than the American, because more than one-fourth of the deaths here are children under twelve months of age, and one-half under ten years of age. I do not think I have ever seen a Chinaman of seventy-five or eighty years of age. I have occasionally seen an old man, a very old man, among the immigrants.

The percentage of death among the whites has been twenty per cent. I have discovered cases of small-pox in Chinatown in a room where twenty or thirty Chinamen were at work making slippers, which were afterwards sent all over the state; and this is one way of transmitting the disease. I have never discovered a case in a Chinese laundry, although I have had a hundred cases reported to me, much to my annoyance. A large percentage of the white prostitutes live in China- town. If we are to have this population, it would be better for us if 10,000 Chinese women were here. I cannot tell what diseases prevail in Chinatown, not having been called there as a medical man. That could only be ascertained through Chinese physicians ; but, from observation, I believe that most deaths are caused through chronic diseases, principally consumption. I consider the Chinese quarter engenders disease to a greater extent than any other thickly-settled portion of the city. There are other parts of the city very bad, but that is from defective sewage. Our white population, as a rule, live very respectably ; but you will find in some of our low portions a dozen families crowded into tenement houses and a great deal of filth. The Chinese are not to be blamed for this lack of sewerage. I have seen dead Chinamen on the street, but no dead women. There was one case of a Chinaman dying on the street. A gentleman opening his store early in the morning, found him in a horrible condition ; he must have been sick at least two weeks ; it was a horrible sight ; some Chinamen came along and carried him to Aleck alley ; he

MEARES.

must have been carried to where he was found ; he died within twenty- four hours of small-pox. There was no necessity for an inquest, the evidence of the cause of death being plain. It is a very difficult matter to get a coroner to make an inquest in a small-pox case, or to get a jury for those cases.

All Chinese women are looked upon as prostitutes ; as a rule, they are. Prostitution. There are a few women here, but it would be a great blessing if there were a great many more for the use of the Chinamen. The use of the prosti- tution of Chinese women is confined to a very low class of white people. You may go into some portions of the Chinese quarters and you will find the lowest class of white people, and negroes, and Mexicans, and Indians, all mixed up together horribly. I do not regard Chinese women as the Chinese prosti- chief source of syphilis, there not being enough of them. I think more tutes not the chief source of syphilis is propagated from the unprofessionals than there is from the pro- syphilis. fessionals amongst the white prostitutes. I doubt very much if there are 4,000 Chinese prostitutes here ; there are a large number of white. In the Chinese quarter prostitutes are a more degraded class than the white ones ; but there are some among the whites as degraded as it is possible to be. I have never thought of the position of Chinamen as domestic servants coming in contact with our children, and the question whether these prostitutes to whom they have access are not a protection to fami- lies. I think it would be better if there were more of them.

ALFRED CLARKE, clerk in the Chief of Police's Department ; filled the CLARKE.

position eight or ten years, but has been a member of the Police Department in different positions for over twenty years, sworn and examined :

The number of Chinese in the city is given by Langley in the directory as 30,000. From observation, the Chinese quarter whenever I went there was pretty dirty ; I have not been there lately. There is a big number of A large number of Chinese prostitutes and gamblers. As to crime, it is not so easy to get prostitutes. Crime. convictions in cases where crimes are committed among themselves, for the reason that the witnesses who are cognizant of the facts are generally Chinese. The number of arrests in proportion to the population of the whites and Chinese does not vary much. We have ordinances here by which the police are authorized to break up the dens of prostitu- tion and make arrests and to punish want of cleanliness. The laws in relation to prostitution and cleanliness bear upon all equally, but among the Chinese the officers have more to do. We have from time to time endeavored to use legal means to bring to justice the violators of this law, and the thing has been going on here for years. At one time we had eighty or ninety of them in a little gaol that was erected for the purpose, and during the time we pressed those prosecutions the practice diminished very much. In 1866 there were not more than forty or fifty prostitutes out of gaol. About this time a proposition was considered to Chinese prosti- locate them away outside of the city, but an Act was passed by the Legis- tutes forbidden to exist in any part lature known as the "Chinese house-of-ill-fame Bill" which prohibited of California. them anywhere. Keeping a house of prostitution is a crime here. It can only be abated by convicting the persons guilty of the offence and putting them in gaol, and if they pay the fine there is nothing except the fear of the law to prevent them doing the same thing over again. It is very hard to get another conviction because they are more careful. Respecting :

Chinese women being held in a state of bondage for the purposes of pros- titution, my line of duty has given me some knowledge of these things. [Two original contracts for the service of these women produced. See Rev. Mr. Gibson's evidence, p. 262.]

On being recalled witness said : If one of these women escape after being bound by one of these contracts the owner usually tries to find her, and if found in the hands of another Chinaman he would be invited to give her up. [Here was read to the wit- ness his answer to the Legislative Committee to the same question.] They do not quite as often get them arrested in our courts ; they cannot get them arrested, because the sheriff would not now give them a warrant for stealing unless they brought corroborative proof of the theft ; but some time ago they obtained some arrests and used the process of court. Assuming the population to be 25,000 or 30,000, about ten per cent. would belong to the criminal class. It is customary for the keepers of white houses of prostitution to send east for new women, and also for them to furnish money for their transportation, and generally an agreement as to how the money is to be repaid. Often the clothing of these white prosti- tutes is owned by the mistress of the house. There have been very few instances of arrest of these prostitutes on the ground of their running away and stealing the clothing they have with them. The main difference between the importation of the Chinese prostitute and the white is that among the former it is recognized as an established custom which ought to be obeyed and respected, but among our own people they know there is a law which gives them liberty. The Chinese women have generally submitted passively and helplessly to this imposition, degradation, and slavery, to be sold and bought and transported at the will of their masters. As to these bills of sale it is on record in our court where a certain person was charged with selling a woman, and tried, found guilty, and sentenced to six months in the county jail. As to the escape and recapture of these women, I have been informed of that by the women and others connected with them. Arresting these women for larceny is accomplished in this way : a Chinaman comes and says a certain woman stole a certain amount of money, say $200 or $300. He would get a warrant out, he would go with an officer and point her out, and when the woman was pointed out he would get other persons to come and file a bail-bond for her. When the bail-bond was filed, those who gave the bail- bond would accompany her as friends, and go away with her. Afterwards the Chinaman would come to court and represent that the charge was unfounded, that the property had been restored, and in that way get the case dismissed. The Chinawoman would then be left in his posses- sion. This is not now continued in practice. Two or three years ago there was a case of kidnapping of a Chinese woman by white men employed by the Chinese. This woman had been consort- ing with a washerman in violation of her contract, and her masters thought they had a right to the assistance of the Chinese to have this contract sustained. The woman was captured in pursuance of that obligation, and was kept until the contract-principals met, and an agree- ment made that there should be no prosecution in the case, which agreement was faithfully carried out in spite of all the officers could do to bring evidence into court. Another young man was arrested a year or a year and a half ago for participating in a similar affair. These facts I gather from reports as told at the police office.

There is a secret tribunal called the Hip-ye-tung which demands from those who bring Chinese women in and marry them something in the

CLARKE

shape of purchase money, $5 a head. On one occasion a certain Chinaman Secret tribunals. 'who had been guilty of marrying a Chinawoman was invited to appear before this tribunal, and there give an account of the purchase money, or other- wise conform to the custom of his countrymen. A complaint was lodged at the police office against this tribunal, and officers detailed to make enquiries, and watch the place. The result was that eight Chinamen were arrested in the rooms where they held their sessions, and were tried in the police court on a charge of conspiracy. The statement that Lup Sam Yung gave was to the effect that having married this woman he was The Hip-ye-tung called before the Hip-ye-tung and told he would have to pay the price for her. He also testified that he was threatened before that tribunal, and who had married that weapons were drawn, and was told in substance that if he did not a woman. pay for the woman he would be killed. The result of the trial was that they were acquitted, the evidence not being sufficient to obtain a convic- tion. A safe was brought down from the rooms and with difficulty opened. Books were found, one of which contained a list of 150 women and some accounts, also some papers which it was understood related to the tran- sactions of the Hip-ye-tung. The tribunal consisted of thirty or forty members or more. Only eight were captured. We had to rely solely on Chinese proof. The man threatened was the strongest witness, but others were called in corroboration.

My observation leads me to think that there has been a union of United action on effort among those interested in sustaining Chinese prostitution, be- cause there is a good deal of money involved in the matter. there are one thousand prostitutes here and all worth $500 a piece, there is a good deal of money at stake, and if all run away it would leave their masters poorer.

The Chinese have societies for regulating matters among themselves, ·but this Hip-ye-tung, I think, was limited to affairs connected with prostitution.

The police have occasionally been called to suppress riots and dis- orders which have occurred at assemblies of Chinamen; sometimes there would be half a dozen badly hurt and a number arrested. I have heard some of the Six Companies state that they had met among themselves and arranged the matter, but am not so clear as to their being a regular tribunal similar to our courts. I have heard and read of notices having been posted in the Chinese quarter offering rewards for assassination.

Respecting the regulation of the Chinese laundries here the washermen have a board of management ; and it would not be allowable, under the customs of the Chinese, for a Chinese washerman to start a laundry unless he had the permission and consent of the board. The board is something like a trades-union among themselves. I think I have heard the sum of Laundries and $2 and $5 spoken of as the license. trades-unions.

As to the evidence of the existence of a secret tribunal to regulate the Secret tribunals. business of Chinamen here, I have never been in one, and have no, clearer knowledge than about the Hip-ye-tung, which I have described ; but there is a case in court now where it is charged that a Chinaman was imprisoned by his fellow countrymen for not settling a claim, and there are persons under arrest for that. A great many Chinamen have been taken off and killed, and it has not been easy for the officers to find it out.

Attempts have been made to suppress prostitution ; there are arrests of white women every day ; I think they number about 1,000 not 5,000.

Besides the contracts already referred to, I have seen some three or four others.

try to extort money from a man

the part of those interested in Chi- If nese prostitution. $500,000 involved.

Rewards offered for assassination.

The city officers generally aid these women to escape from their bonds At one time the number of Chinese prostitutes was down to forty out of gaol. White men and white women are sent to prison for procuring girls for the purposes of prostitution.

I understand that the Six Companies have a board of arbitration.

The most numerous class of offences for which the Chinese are arrested is gambling, prostitution, and violation of the pure-air law, for the latter a fine of $10 or five days' imprisonment. If he goes to prison, his hair is cut.

Chinamen are arrested in large numbers, thirty and forty of a night, for infringing the cubic-air ordinance.

The law excuses the cells in gaols and prisons from its application.

Sometimes the Chinese sue in our courts in civil matters, but most of their disputes are settled among themselves.

Washermen, cigar makers, etc., Iunderstand, allhave their trades-unions, in which they meet and arbitrate their difficulties.

No member of the Six Companies has ever said to me, in so many words, that there was a tribunal among the Chinese which settled matters, crim- inal and civil; but a man would say that the thing had been arranged -fixed up. This relates to criminal matters to a considerable extent.

Contact with our civilization improves them, but they have a tendency to draw us down.

SAN FRANCISCO, October 24th, 1876.

HENRY H. ELLIS, connected with the Police Department for twenty years, upwards of fifteen years a detective, now Chief of Police, sworn and examined :

There are about 30,000 Chinese in the city, perhaps a few more. The number varies very much. During the rainy season there might be as many as 60,000 and from 120,000 to 160,000 in the state. Respecting their habits and crimes, I have a statement compiled from the books, and will read it as follows :-

" For the year ending June, 1876, the white arrests made were 17,991 ; Chinese Extent of Chinese 2,117 ; total, 20,108. July, August and September of the present year the arrests crime. of whites was 5,047; Chinese, 876; total, 5,925.

" The Chinese population of the city and county of San Francisco is reported by Langley as 30,000 ; 2,117 criminals, being equal to 7.053, for the year end- ing June 30th, 1876.

" Chinese per cent. of the whole number of arrests, say 20,108, for the year end- ing June 30th, 1876, the number of arrests being 2,117, equals 10 2655-5027, or 10} per cent. Chinese per cent. of the number arrested, say 878, for the three months ending September 30th, 1876, 2-923 per cent. of the Chinese population of 30,000.

"Chinese felons sent to state prison during the year ending February 17th, 1876, say 68, equal to 13 31-63 or 13} per cent. of 504, the whole number of convicts sent during that time.

" We did not have the record down any later than last February."

These convictions were for felonies, that is for the state at large; this latter paper does not apply to the city alone :

" The white population, according to Langley, is reported to be 240,000; 17,991 criminals being equal to 7-49g per cent. for the year ending June 30th, 1876.

ELLIS

" White criminals for the three months ending September 30th, 1876, is 5,047, Percentage of being 2-10 7-24 per cent. of the whole white population of 240,000." Chinese crime

Here is a summary of the whole thing :

"2,117 Chinese arrested, 1875 and 1876, being 7.056 per cent. of their population.

" 2,117 Chinese arrested, 1875 and 1876, being 10-5 per cent. of the whole number

of arrests.

"878 Chinese arrested, for three months, ending September 30th, 1876, being 2.923 per cent. of their population.

" 68 Chinese convicts sent to state prison during the year ending February 17th, 1876, being 13-63 per cent. of the whole number sent for the year.

" 17,991 whites arrested, 1875 and 1876, being 7.496 per cent. of their whole popu- lation.

"5,047 whites arrested for three months ending September 30th, 1876, being 2-103 of their population.

** 30,000 Chinese population, being 12-5 per cent. of the whole population of the city."

More difficult to arrest Chinese

As a rule it is more difficult to arrest Chinese than whites. This state- ment embraces the crimes of Chinese against Chinese and Chinese against than whites. whites. It is very difficult where Chinese and Chinese are concerned to get a conviction, their testimony being unreliable, with a few notable excep- tions. I know from rumor and hearsay that the Chinese have a court to. settle among themselves civil and criminal matters.

One case came under my observation where an attempt was made to Secret tribunals. settle a criminal case in which I was concerned. The criminal was event- ually found in an inner room adjoining the room where a large congregation of Chinamen were gathered. The man that took me there informed me .that I would first have to wait to see what disposition was made by those people. I have heard of Chinamen being convicted of offences, and judg- ment being carried out amongst themselves. It has been understood by the police generally that such was the fact. Notices have been posted offering rewards for killing Chinese. I have seen notices purporting to be Assassination. of that kind in the Chinese language and have had them interpreted to me verbally. There may be some copies preserved. I think their pre- sence here has an injurious effect upon our civilization, their prostitu- Chinese prostitu- tion being more accesible to boys and youths. Their mode of solicitation ble to boys. tion more accesi- is to stand at their windows and call people, asking them to come in. They use enough English to make known their desires and wants. It is universally believed by the police and people that these women prostitutes Prostitutes held are held as slaves. I have no faith whatever in their conversion to as slaves. Christianity, from the fact that I have seen some of them that professed Christianity of Christianity come down and take a hand and an interest in cases in Chinese a delusion. court totally at variance with their professions.

The condition of their quarter is very filthy as a rule. Without the Filth. police here they would be buried in their own filth in many places. They are compelled by the police to clean up once or twice a week. The nature of their filth is refuse of all kinds, thrown out indiscriminately, even worse than that. They have little places in some portions of Chinatown where they have vaults overflowing with filth. As soon as the Chinaman takes possession of a building, it seems to go to rack and ruin, and become filthy, dirty, and discolored. The condition of their stairways is very filthy.

Chinadom is slowly extending. Some ten or a dozen blocks have been Chinatown given up to the Chinese generally, situated in the heart of the old portion extending. of the city, the northern part, beyond which there is a handsome quarter out towards North Beach. To get to that quarter, the people living there had one avenue ; but the Chinamen got in there, and whenever they get in they maintain a foothold and crowd everybody else out. They did this on this street, and now it is quite a task to go up and down that street alone .at some hours of the night ; and to a lady it is very disagreeable.

Chinese pay higher rents, and white people do not like to live beside them. The effect of two Chinamen on each side of a man having a flourishing business, would be to injure his business and cause him to move away somewhere else.

The further extension of Chinadom would be disastrous to the whites, causing them to move away, and their places to be filled with Chinamen ..

If the Palace Hotel were divided up to be a hive of Chinese, it would be profitable, and there is no law to prevent the owner from devoting it to such a purpose, and nothing to prevent the Chinese from taking possession. Public opinion might have some influence over the owners of property in some localities, as it has against them living in other parts of the city, the same having a tendency to drive them together. The Chinese quarter- is more densely populated than any other part of the city.

The percentage of arrests, as compared with the whites, is about equal, the latter embracing women and children. It does not necessarily follow that they should be filthy, because they are crowded ; they are filthy as a. people. Chinese boys who have been any length of time in white families acquire cleanly habits, but as soon as they return to their quarters they lapse into their old ways.

Chinamen go bail ; two persons being required to go on a bond. In a case of prostitution $100 is required, the fine ranging from $25 to $50. Nearly all convicted go to the county gaol and serve their term out. Probably there were more Chinese prostitutes arrested last year than whites. We have an ordinance forbidding them to solicit prostitution. Keeping a disorderly house is another offence for which the fine is $10. It is difficult to prove a case against either Chinese or whites. One act. does not make prostitution in the eyes of the law.

In the trial of white persons the testimony frequently fails to convict. Perjury is committed in all courts, every day on an average ; but there is not one convicted of it in a year. Cases come up in the police court where twenty persons have sworn to an alibi that neither court nor officers be- lieved -Chinese. Not such a great number among the whites.

The Barbary Coast here is replete with crime. A few Chinese are scattered through, as well as other persons, of all nations and all char- acters. In some localities they are a bad lot, in some pretty good. There is another district called the Tar Flat, made notorious by the hood- lums.

Lately we have been quite active in enforcing the ordinances against the Chinese, because of the epidemic, but heretofore these arrests have not been so largely in excess of other arrests. .

The Chinese laundrymen pay no license. There was a test case and the court decided it was not valid.

Among the better class of Chinese their testimony is usually reliable, and in their private transactions and dealings I consider them men of probity, and honor and truthfulness.

The case already referred to in which I was personally interested, was assault for murder, and the man was delivered over to me. This is the only case that I know of where they attempted to settle among themselves any serious crime. It is usual among benevolent associations of white people to settle among themselves small difficulties that might be the sub- ject of police investigation. The police have always understood that the Chinese had tribunals to try, arbitrate and punish, but I have no evidence of such being the fact. In the case of the Hip-ye-tung there was no evid- ence to convict. One of the witnesses was considered a respectable man, and at the time I had no doubt as to the reliability of his testimony, but.

ELLIS

it was met by considerable evidence on the other side, and the judge decided in favor of the defendants.

Assassination is not confined to Chinamen, cases happening among the Assassination. whites. During my twenty years' experience I should think there had been a dozen cases of assassination of Chinese by Chinese, and three or four cases where Chinamen have been assassinated by whites. I have read of hundreds of them being assassinated in the mines.

The police have had more trouble with hoodlums of late, of whom there Hoodlums and are several thousands. Other boys besides these visit the Chinese prosti- prostitutes. tutes. The prostitutes are confined to six or eight blocks. It would not be possible with our police force of 150 men to exclude white boys, there being only seven or eight men detailed to look after that locality. We have special police for the Chinese, but these are the only regular officers to look after that people, nor is this number increased during the wet 60,000 Chinese in season, when as many as 60,000 Chinese are in the city. At the close of San Francisco the harvest they begin to come in, and go out again from time to time as season. during wet work opens up for them. They remain here two or three months. The 30,000 mentioned are the resident population, and the percentage of arrests is based upon that number. The voting population of the whites number about 30,000, and the arrests constitute grown-up men, females, youths, and boys. There are about 1,500 white prostitutes and about 1,000 1,500 white and Chinese in the city ; other nationalities do not figure much, but they are 1,000 Chinese prostitutes. not virtuous.

The centre of trade and residence has moved south, and the centre of Relative growth Chinese population from the new city hall is about half a mile. The of Chinatown. population and region inhabited by the Chinese has not extended as rapidly and as widely as the portion inhabited by the white, the former extending only a few blocks and the latter for miles. The section in- habited by the Chinese was a very lively place before they went there, the criminal element predominating. They have been remarkably exempt from fire considering their carelessness. They have wash-houses nearly all over the city, as well as cigar-houses and other institutions in the business part of the town, in many instances white people occupying the same building or part of a store partitioned off. Those who carry on wash-houses and cigar establishments eat and sleep there ; they have their women there. There is a striking contrast as to cleanliness between the wash-house Chinamen and the people who congregate in the Chinese quarter, and there is an improvement in their condition when they become servants.

Chinamen have been very badly abused here. The hoodlums stone, Chinese very beat, and abuse them in a shameful manner ; and if he is found in a part of the city alone where the police are not in call, if he escapes with his life or without being maimed or badly treated he is very fortunate. Hoodlums here have the same standing as "roughs " or vagabonds in the east, the majority of them eventually becoming thieves and criminals. They fol- łow no pursuit, live in blocks, and commit every crime known to the cal- endar. Several murders have been committed by them and several punish- ed, but none has been hanged. Two hoodlums were arrested for stabbing a Chinaman to the heart, one was sentenced to the state's prison for a term of years, and the other was sent to the asylum from which he escaped immediately afterwards and has never been caught.

I am a housekeeper and have a wife and six children. My water rate Water rate. is $4.50 a month ; $2.50 is the lowest rate and it runs up to $100 accord- ing to the quantity used. Water is a heavy tax on every citizen whether hoodlum or Chinaman.

badly treated by hoodlums.

I have known property to be destroyed by an incendiary, after sending threatening letters to persons employing Chinese.

In the administration of my office, I have received assistance from the more respectable members of the Chinese companies, societies, and mer- chants, in apprehending criminals, and sometimes in giving evidence and in the recovery of property. There was a police officer shot lately in Chinatown, and I sent for three or four of the heads of the Chinese com- panies. When they came, I told them they must get the man ; they said they would, and they did. They brought him down and delivered him up. It is not common to send for these men, but in cases of importance we do it. They promise fair, and I have no reason to doubt their good faith.

Respecting the riot in Dupont street, there were two factions of Chinamen engaged in some shoe factory. They got into a quarrel about a gang that had been discharged and another taken on, and used bars of iron and hatchets, and had a fierce and sanguinary fight for a time. The gang that was discharged went up to collect their wages, and insisted on a return of their deposit which the proprietor declined to give them.

VREELAND. EZEKIEL B. VREELAND, a resident of San Francisco for twenty-seven years, and Commissioner of Immigration from 1873 to 1876, sworn and examined :

Witness produced an exhibit from the captain of the vessel, and the sworn statement of the passengers arriving by the ship Alaska on the 15th of February, 1875, said exhibit containing the names of all the passengers coming on that ship, their places of birth, age, occupation, sex and last place of residence.

Every ship that comes here makes a report in that way. Accompany- ing the statement is another one signed by the United States Consul at Hong Kong, stating that they are free and voluntary emigrants ; also in connection with that is a certificate from the English emigration office at Hong Kong, that they are properly provisioned and have a certain number of feet allowed for each passenger. The list contains 801 names, all males. They all embark at Hong Kong, coming from different portions of

The influx of Chinese is very hurtful to the white population grow- ing up here. The hoodlums are bad boys ; in fact they are idle and cannot be anything else but bad. On account of the numerous Chinese in the state it is unfortunate for the youth growing up ; I believe it is mak- ing hoodlums of them. They become simply bad because they cannot get work. I know as a fact that they cannot get work. There is no surplus work here for boys to learn trades. I have been trying to get a place at a mechanical trade for a boy of mine and cannot. The labor leagues of the leading trades have articles in their constitution limiting the number of apprentices, and these unions are not confined to San Francisco. Some of these hoodlums have a fair education, a majority read and write. [Rev. Mr. Gibson here gives the meaning of Hip-ye-tung as "Temple of united Justice." Hip is strength, Ye is righteousness, and Tung is a temple.] The regulation among the trades-unions limiting the number of appren- tices to so many men employed is independent of the presence of the Chinese. The hoodlums number between 400 and 500. They not only stone Chinese, but they go in for a French or German baker, or anything they come across, and commit all crimes from petty larceny to murder.

VREELAND

China. Their ages run from eight, and even smaller, up to forty-five and Immigrants. fifty years of age ; their average will be from twenty to twenty-five. More young people than any other class. They are mostly classed as laborers, the same as all women passing the Consul are classed as seam- stresses. There is sometimes an invoice of Chinamen who come under the patronage of the government, and in charge of some head Chinaman, and these are classed as students. They go east to some college in Massa- Students. chusetts.

In my opinion, the women that arrive are not all prostitutes. There is a company here importing Chinese women, the Hip-ye-tung, and six companies importing Chinamen. The importation of Chinese women has been stopped since the United States Supreme Court decided the case, and even before that. Eighty per cent. of the Chinamen imported are 80 per cent. of brought out under the auspices of the Six Companies, the remaining twenty immigrants brought out by per cent. being brought out through the agency of their particular friends agency of the or come personally. Those who come out under the auspices of the com- companies. panies are generally attached to the companies on their arrival, and re- main under their jurisdiction until the amount advanced them has been liquidated. In most cases they are assisted into employment through the agency of these companies. I think the companies are very good institutions so far as Chinamen are concerned ; they act as guardians Companies act as and protectors of their interests generally. After their dues are paid I do guardians. not think the companies pay much attention to them, although they are always "attached." The wages are collected by a party who accompanies Wages collected a gang of 100 or 200 into the country to work on a railway, this party by a boss representing the society. I have never heard any complaints of their being robbed or treated unfairly.

I never saw their contracts, but I am told it is nothing more nor less Contract simply than a matter of honesty between them. The contract, as far as I got it to refund the money. from Chinamen themselves, is simply to refund the money advanced. I heve known the companies to have contracts with the steamship companies that they shall take none back without evidence of their dues being paid- debts due to the companies alone. The Pacific Mail and all ships are under obligations to these Six Companies from the fact that they furnish passen- gers. The contract is in the nature of a security that the company takes for the payment of the money, and that cannot be got back until it is paid.

The women are bought in China, as near as I could come at the facts Women 'bought. of the case, and brought over here and sold at various prices, from $200 to $1,000, by the Hip-ye-tung Company. The commissioner stopped twenty-two of them and took them before the District Court here, and they were remanded back to the ship to be sent to China. The case was appealed to the Supreme Court of the state, which court affirmed the decision of the District Court. A writ of habeas corpus was then got out and taken before the United States circuit court. The judge discharged twenty-one of them and kept one, so that an appeal could be taken to the United States Supreme Court, which court affirmed the decision of the United States Circuit Court, that no state had a right to prohibit the landing of passengers of any character whatever.

The flow of Chinese immigration has its periods. At this season of the year (October) there are more returning than coming this way. I under- stand they go back to celebrate the new year. It is a fact that the Six Companies and leading mercantile firms sent despatches stopping the immigration. The period when more are coming out than returning is in than return in May, June, July and August, as many as 5,000 coming in the month of

More come out May, June, July and August.

14

VREELAND

June. A great many of them visit backward and forward ; those who have been here a while and have made money ; so that all who come back are not new immigrants.

Voyage. During the voyage over the steamship companies exercise a great deal of care in taking charge of them; they enforce habits of cleanliness among them. Nearly every day they are driven on deck and their quarters cleansed ; they do not want small-pox on board, as quarantines are very expensive affairs. On their arrival, the Chinaman generally puts on his best clothes and goes ashore in the best kind of style. During the time I was in office I did not know of a case of small-pox among them on land- ing, and no contagious disease. In China, before they go aboard, they are stripped to the waist and examined ; and if a Chinaman is anywhere un- healthy, or in any way maimed, or liable to be an encumbrance upon the society, he is rejected. After being passed by the Consul, he is stamped with an india ink mark. If there is any demand for labor here they will hold out inducements in China for them to come. The companies make money out of them, otherwise they would not encourage them to come. Some of the agents on the wharf have complained to me that there were too many Chinese coming here, that they could not get work for them, but still they come in large numbers. They bring them without any previous engagement ; the labor is engaged after the Chinaman arrives. The influx depends upon the labor demands here ; but a Chinaman there will take his chances and come. It is their desire to better their condi- tion, the companies making the advance to assist them. If a Chinaman For the companies owed me $100 and wanted to leave the country, and I went to the party to hold a debtor the indebtedness must be to some member of the that represented him and stated the fact, I do not think they would care about my $100, but let him go ; but I think if a Chinaman belonging to company or to the the same company said the Chinaman who was going back was in- company itself. debted to him $100 it would be different. The indebtedness must be to the company or some member of it, and for their protection. All the Six Companies appear to act in unison. Some of them get demoralized after Some bad. they get here, and become a portion of the criminal class; some of them are as industrious and honest as almost anybody-that is, they do not commit crime ; but the larger portion think they cannot make money Some good. fast except by stealing. Contact with our people does not make them any worse ; a large number of them must have been low in morals before they left China. Other people who come here have low morals.

The British do not allow men not free or diseased to The British are very stringent in the shipment of Chinese at Hong Kong ; they do not allow any man to leave who is not free, nor one who leave Hong Kong. is helpless by disease.

Six Companies a benefit to Chinamen.

The Six Companies, according to my ideas of those things, are to a great extent a benefit to Chinamen. I think if a man is in debt to the com. pany they would look out for him and try to get him well ; but if he was not in debt to them I do not think they would care much about him. I have heard of cases of sick Chinamen being thrown upon the street to die. As a rule, probably, the Six Companies do take care of sick Chinamen. A good many of the sick poor are taken to the pest-house and small-pox hospital.

There have been some Chinese lepers out at the alms-house or pest- house which the companies did not take care of. Leprosy is a disease which affects the body, not the face. I am not familiar with the disease. I know by report that it prevails largely in the Sandwich Islands, and also that it prevails in China. There is no provision here to prevent its im- portation from the Sandwich Islands. I am told there is a place set apart for lepers there.

Leprosy.

During his term of office knew of no case of small- pox imported.

Some agents had complained that two many were coming.

BRYANT

ANDREW J. BRYANT, a resident of California for twenty-six years, Mayor of San Francisco, sworn and examined :

During the fall and winter months last year there were from 60,000 to Number of 70,000 Chinese residents, but going through the quarters now there do not ('hinese. appear to be more than half that number ; it varies from 30,000 to 60,000, according to the season and business in the country. If railroads are building in the country, they go there ; if none in progress, they come to the city. During the excitement of last April there was abundant pre- caution taken, and I had two or three interviews with the companies. They conversed with me respecting their protection; they feared an outbreak. I assured them they would be protected, and then 200 extra policemen were put on the night of the mass meeting. That night was as quiet a night as we ever had in the city, and there has been no trouble since. Since I have been a resident of the city, I have not known anything like an organized riot or an attack against the Chinese.

In conversation with the Six Companies they told me there was a secret Secret tribunal. tribunal in the city, and had been for a long time, the jurisdiction of such being to settle their own difficulties, either by fine or punishment, among themselves, and they had been informed by city officials in years past, that it would be better for them to do it. They also told me about their. regulations in regard to the laundries, that they allowed only so many on a block, each man having to get a license from the laundry society, and: until he got that license he could not start a laundry. The leading- feature of the organization is that they count the doors. I know one. place where they paid a man $300 for cutting an extra door in his building for two or three months, so that they could count one more door- and get another wash-house for a certain length of time.

Chinatown is very dirty and has been so for years. Within the last Sanitary .. few months it has been made cleaner, the police having been instructed to keep it as clean as possible on account of the city's health. It is very hard to keep the fire ordinance or any of the city ordinances in force in their quarters-in fact it is impossible. It is all but impossible to enforce (rambling. the ordinance against gambling and prostitution. The bars on their doors are such that no one can get into their gambling houses. As to prosti- Prostitution .. tution, I do not think it is as public now as it was years ago, but still it is carried on to a certain extent, as also is gambling. And as to convicting them, we find it difficult to get testimony. White people will inform one upon another, and by that means we find out where their places are, but these people do not seem to inform one against another.

I tried to get the Six Companies to take their sick, and told them I Sick thought we would be able to furnish them ground in the outskirts to build a hospital upon if they would move them out of the heart of the city, but I could not get them to do it. I also endeavored to get them to send back their lepers ; but we got no assistance from them at all. We found in Leprosy. the pest-house some eleven or twelve. There were one or two women that the health officer advised me to take to the pest-house. They were retained with those who were there, and about two months ago we got the Mail Company to take them back to China. The Chinese authorities knew nothing of it until they were shipped.

The greater portion of the Chinese are working people, but there are a large class gathered in the city who are gamblers. I have never seen a Chinaman assimilate in any way to our form of government and habits. I think it would be impossible ; they are so totally different in every way in their habits.

BRYANT

Labor and wages. We have a large quantity of surplus labor here in the city, and the country is well supplied. Wages are about the same as in former years ; men get $2 and $2.50 a day. Our labor is kept up. Farm hands get about $30 to $40 per month ; that has been about the price for the last two or three years. If it was not for the Chinaman, we should have more. In travelling around this year, I noticed at the sulphur banks on Clear Lake, that they were working quite a profitable mine there with nearly all Chinamen. I was told they paid them a dollar a day and they found them- selves. I also visited Mr. Hayward's works in Nevada county, where he had a large number of men, either Germans or Italians, and I think but two Chinamen, who were building a large dam. The foreman told me he had no difficulty in getting white labor. The whites will work in these sulphur mines, but they could not work for a dollar a day. There were probably 100 Chinamen employed. If there had been no Chinamen in the country, they would have employed white labor and paid them better wages, and larger labor would have been here that now stays away. Chinese labor has a tendency to keep laborers from the east and Europe from coming here ; but some do come and some return, but not so many. The state is growing, but I do not think immigrants are coming as fast as they did a few years ago. During the last five years I think there has been a steady increase in the state, and I think the city has been steadily growing. Sacramento is about the distributing point for that class of immigrants and working people. I think most who have come within the last year are people who seek land for homes -farmers, Europeans, mostly Germans.

White immi- grants complain they cannot get work.

The wages of miners in Virginia city and the mountains range from $2 up to $4, not as high as $4. The sulphur banks could be worked profit- ably with white labor. They have not been worked a long time, and the superintendent told me that the quicksilver was an entire profit to them, the sulphur paying the whole expense of working.

I have a great many complaints from quite a number of the immigrants arriving here ; not so much from those who arrive but from people who have been here some time. They complain they cannot get work. There is not a day that I do not have a great many complaints, some of which are really cases of charity.

Manufacturing

We did very little manufacturing many years ago. The first woolen mill that was started was started with white labor and then it drifted into Chinese. That was about 1867-68. If we had capital, we could employ a great deal more white labor than we do. There are some sorts of manufactures that we cannot manufacture here as cheaply as can be done in the east ; iron, for instance. To a considerable extent we carry on the iron industry because we must get it done, and in the manu- facture of iron our machine shops are conducted wholly by white labor.

Agricultural im plements.

«Candles.

I think for ten per cent. money could be obtained here for establishing manufactures. Six or seven per cent. used to be considered a good return for an investment in manufacturing in New England. I should like to see the manufacture of agricultural implements established on this coast, and it would be better if white labor was employed so that the institutions of the state could be built up permanently. We burn a great many candles, but how many I cannot answer. The bulk of them are shipped from the east ; some are manufactured here but not as many as are shipped. I think the degradation the Chinese bring us is so great that it would be better never to have a candle manufactured than to have the Chinese turned loose upon us. It would be better that all the candles should be manufactured in the east.

BRYANT

I·believe the treaty relations with the present Emperor of China had better be abrogated than endure this system of immigration.

DAVID LOUDERBACK, a resident of the state since 1849, prosecuting attorney, and police court judge for twelve years, sworn and examined :

LOUDERBACK.

Chinese do not get arrested for opium-eating. We have a large num- ber of white men arrested for drunkenness, about 650 a month, and other crimes connected with it, such as shouting and disturbing the peace. It is difficult where Chinamen commit crimes upon Chinamen to bring Will not co- them to justice or get evidence to convict then. A great many crimes criminal law. operate with the among themselves go unpunished. Their veracity is exceedingly bad. They hardly ever prosecute, except when animated by malice and some Evidence conspiracy to convict somebody. The form of administering an oath to unreliable. them is this : the witness stands and holds up his hand, and the oath is administered the same as to white men. As a class they do not seem to realize that there is such a thing as sanctity about an oath. I do not think they show any disposition to become citizens nor do I No disposition to think they ought to. Not much more than half the people arrested are Not desirable. become citizens. convicted. There may be just as large a proportion of Chinese convicted as there are white people, where their crimes affect white people ; but where it concerns themselves, such as murder, there will be such infernal lying that the jury cannot tell who is telling the truth, and will let them go. Among the lower class of white people there is an immense amount A great deal of of perjury, but amidst this one can see that they have some respect for whites. an oath. Perjury is committed daily ; conflicting oaths are given con- stantly. There is plenty of crime and plenty of perjury among the white race. Conviction for perjury is a very rare thing. The jury will almost invariably disagree or acquit. There have been a great many arrests lately among the Chinese for violation of the cubic-air ordinance, but they do not equal Cubic-air the arrests for drunkenness among the white people. It is a rare exception ordinance. for a Chinaman to be arrested for drunkenness, nor do I remember any for disturbing the peace. Chinamen exceed the Americans in obscenity. I know of no crime peculiar to the whites except drunkenness ; there are some forgeries and robberies, rolling on drunks, and confidence games ('hinamen con- among them, but we have convicted Chinamen for rolling on drunks and picking pockets. As a general thing these crimes are committed by white men, as well as garroting. I think the Chinese are arrested about the same as anybody else, except for violating the pure-air law.

Hoodlumism has been existing in London under the name of Mohawks ; Hoodlumism. · and so in every other big city. I have sent small boys, fifteen or sixteen years of age, to industrial schools, that have been affected by diseases by contact with Chinese prostitutes. Either they encourage the boys or the boys Prostitution and have courage to go there when they would not have courage to approach boys. a house where there are white prostitutes. I suppose that the exclusion of boys from employment by the Chinese cheap labor has been one great Chinese cheap cause of producing hoodlumism. labor.

perjury among the

victed for drunk- enness.

SAN FRANCISCO, October 25th, 1876.

MICHAEL A. SMITH, a resident of California for twenty-seven years, a police officer, sworn and examined :

At this time of the year the Chinese begin to come in and stay here through the winter. Between 50,000 and 60,000, perhaps more, were here last winter. Chinatown last winter was very filthy; it is still filthy, but not near as filthy as it has been. The basements and lodging-houses where the poorer class of Chinese live have been very filthy, and their out-houses very dirty.

At the present time I do not think there are over 400 prostitutes in Chinatown. We have made raids against and have arrested them from time to time. At one time there might have been 1,500 before the raid- ing commenced. A great many have been sent away to the country. There are two kinds of brothels in Chinatown: one where Chinamen go exclusively, generally on the second floor; the other, where white men go, located in alleys. The prostitutes have a little wicket about a foot square, and they get on the inside of it and keep it open. As a man passes they say : "Siss, siss." Most of them can speak English enough to let you know what their vocation is. In some of these houses there is an old woman, the boss, and two women, sometimes five or six. The size of the rooms is about four by six, sometimes five by eight feet. There may be a little bed there-a bunk.

There are different places through the city where they have what they call hospitals. I found in a great many of those places that the sick seemed to want much and were not well taken care of. Aleck alley is a very filthy place. There is a little shed like, and the sick are generally in there. The room is about ten feet square and seven feet high. Six people is the most I have ever seen there. They lie on boards or racks. I have seen no physician or attendants there, and rice is the only food-some- times cooked and sometimes not -- that I have observed. I believe there is a leper in Aleck alley at the present time, and can be seen by almost everybody.

They crowd together very thick. Under the cubic-air law as many as thirty have been arrested in a room which should only hold six. At the present time they do not get in so thick as they did before the law was passed. They have a great many gambling-houses. Some of them will say they play dominoes, that they smoke opium, and such things. It is, in fact, a long table ; and they have three doors. Each door is generally two inches thick, and when they wish to gamble or have a look-out, they can close those doors and have big bars on them. Last winter, before we began making raids upon them, they used to have a guard at the door ; at the present time they hardly ever do it.

Respecting secret tribunals, I know that the washermen, the shoe- makers and cigar-makers have a society, and there is also a society called highbinders or hatchetmen. The latter is a class of men who go around and blackmail both the Chinese merchants and the prostitutes; sometimes they go into a house and demand money, and if they do not get it they will raise a fight. I suppose they are gamblers, blackmailers, and thieves of all kinds. They have rooms to meet in. A great many of them carry a hatchet about six inches long, with a handle and a hole cut in. They have the handle sawed off a little, leaving just enough to keep a good hold. Among the Chinamen they are called bad men, or hatchetmen. Chinamen in business and others come to me regularly and tell me where

SMITH

they have a room. We find it out, and then, perhaps, they move to some other part of Chinatown. The room I speak of, on Washington street, is their headquarters. Very often I go up there with two or three officers and get inside the room and search each Chinaman as he comes in, and sometimes arrest quite a number for carrying concealed weapons, such as Murderous hatchets, knives and pistols. They are the terror of Chinatown. weapons.

In the Chinese houses of prostitution for Chinamen, there is no such Difficulty of con- thing as getting a conviction in one of them. Last spring I went up and raided a Chinese house of prostitution and arrested fourteen or fifteen, ed. and when they got into court it turned out they were all married women --- they all had husbands. Regarding the regular houses of prostitution, with the wickets and window-tapping, they are pretty much crowded out now. Last January there were from forty-five to fifty such houses.

In regard to convicting those who buy and sell women, a case was reported of fourteen coming here on the Colorado. We hunted it up and finally arrested a woman who stated that she had been bought in China by a woman here, and brought here for prostitution. She said Buying prosti- her mother had sold her for $185 to this woman ; besides paying her tutes. passage the woman bought her clothes, which made the total $300, for which she was to serve her as a prostitute for five years. We kept the woman for five or six weeks in the county gaol, and when we came to trial she swore she had not seen before that night the procuress (who was also arrested, acknowledging at the time of arrest that she was her girl), nor did she know the man who kept the house in which she was arrested, more than to see him in the house; that she came here as a seamstress, and that her sister brought her. That is an illustration of the ('hinese testimony general result of Chinese testimony.

There are from 1,200 to 2,000 white prostitutes here, where they have an exclusive quarter for plying their avocation.

The gambling the Chinese indulge in is lottery and tan. They have Gambling. a square plate in the middle of the table with numbers like 1, 2, 3, 4. They have a large number of buttons on the table, and they have a little cup or bowl. They place the bowl over a number of buttons and put them out at the centre of the table, and there they make their bets on the different numbers. Ten per cent. of the winnings is in favor of the dealer. If you lose you lose it all. In these gambling houses they exclude everybody but Chinamen.

At the present time Chinese houses of prostitution for the whites is not Prostitution. .a very profitable business ; at one time it was. There are only one or two houses for the Chinese but what are up stairs. On and off they open up a place, and if we find them out we arrest them. Lately the houses have been broken up pretty well, and what they call Chinese families have moved into some of those the prostitutes had moved out of. Large numbers of them have been arrested in the last six months.

A Chinaman's bed consists of a mat and a little square block for a A ('hinaman's bed. pillow covered with flannel, sometimes with velvet, and quilts. In some of the merchants' houses they have very nice beds.

The white prostitutes sit at their windows and by signs and looks testify White prostitutes. to those passing what their business is. Sometimes they are brought down in large numbers from these houses, larger numbers than the Chinese be- cause there are more of them. There has been no soliciting on the public streets for years. The records will show a great many more white pros- titutes than Chinese arrested for soliciting. There have been times when these women were rescued from the bond-women and men and placed in

victing Chinese prostitutes arrest-

216

the missions. Sometimes the woman will come to the city hall herself for fly to city hall for protection. A few years ago they used to beat these women considerably protection. in these houses ; at the present time I do not think they use them near as badly as they did.

In Chinatown there are merchants, in my opinion, of respectability who have wives and children, and live as other families do. A great many of these women who have been prostitutes Chinamen will marry ; some- times they will have to buy them from their owners to liquidate their in- debtedness. I have heard of men who made a practice of buying a woman, saying they were going to marry them, live with her a while, and then take her up the country and sell her and come back.

On being recalled the witness identified photographs of several Chinese women, who came as repectable persons, now plying their vocation as prostitutes.

In enforcing the cubic-air ordinance witness has often gone into houses at night and found in a room, fit probably for two men, sometimes six, sometimes twelve in it. The poorer class of Chinese are found very thick under the sidewalks and under basements, in mere holes, and the atmosphere would be stifling in such quarters.

In distinguishing prostitutes witness could not tell one class from another on the street.

FREDERICK A. GIBBS, a resident of the city over twenty-six years, one of the supervisors of the city and county of San Francisco and chairman of the hospital committee, sworn and examined:

When I took office I found that there were a large number in the pest house represented as lepers, the place being set aside for small-pox. There were forty-three patients, more or less. Accompanied by the health officer and some physicians we examined them, and found a large number who were really not sick, and discharged them, retaining fourteen lepers. I afterwards found out that there were three prostitutes afflicted with lep- rosy, who had been plying their vocation for two or three years. It being a contagious disease, obtained by contact with the person, I gathered these women together and sent them to the pest-house, where we had a great deal of trouble with them, several Chinamen claiming them as their wives. I called the Chinese companies together for consultation. We met, and after discussion, carried on through an interpreter, we could get no satisfaction. We were to meet again, but the representatives of the companies never came. After consultation with the board of supervisors, we agreed to send them away at the expense of the city rather than have a leprous popula- tion, for there was danger even in shaking hands and sleeping in the same room. The Chinamen themselves were very much afraid of the leprosy. I had another meeting with these Chinamen, this time in the Chinese quar- ters, and laid the matter before the representatives of the companies; and they agreed to help me all they could. A vessel was then going to China with a return cargo of Chinamen. I told them the city would pay the expenses of these lepers if they would assist in getting them back. I waited on the agent, who told me that the Chinamen had been there and made representations that it would be impossible to get them on. I again met the companies and told them that we would take them on the next steamer, and that I wanted their assistance. I went to Mr. Goodwin, of the Oriental line of steamers, about the matter, and he told me that the companies were interfering with my arrangements; that I would be un-

GIBBS

able to ship them; that he would not dare to take them; that they had threatened they would not ship passengers or freight by him. I dead-locked it for a month, and gave out to the Chinese that I had determined to keep them. In the meantime I made arrangements with the Pacific Mail steamer Lepers shipped to to take them back to China. We got them on board just before the steamer China. sailed, but not without difficulty. There were fourteen in all including three women, two of the original number having left the pest-house before the admission of the women. I have never heard anything of them since. Officers of the Six They were shipped about six weeks ago. The officers of the Six Companies Companies opposing. threw every obstacle in the way of shipping them.

After coming into the board I found our gaols very crowded; I also found that our ordinances were not effective, were not enforced. In explanation I was informed that it would be impossible to enforce them, that there would be 1,000 Chinamen in the gaols if they were enforced. I then drew Drew up thequeue up the queue ordinance, and made it apply to whites and Chinese alike. ordinance. It had the desired effect. Then the cubic-air law was enforced ; the laws against gambling were enforced, and a number were brought up and fined ('ubic-air law. . at the police court $10 or $20. The fine was generally $10, and before they would pay it they would go to gaol and serve five days. The queue ordinance had the effect of making them pay their fines and relieve our gaols, and applied to all who refused to pay their fines and went to prison-all persons. If a Chinaman was convicted and paid his fine he would not have his hair cut. I was informed that the first whose hair was cut was a white hoodlum, and it seems to affect them about as badly as Chinamen.

Among other cases which I found in the hospital were a large number Paralysis from of Chinese suffering from paralysis resulting from Chinese syphilis. I Chinese syphilis. .. found also in the alms-house the same state of things. Even in the indus- trial school were little boys, not old enough to understand the passions Little boys of the race, who had been enticed by these women into their dens for inoculated. the mere purpose of inoculating them with the disease. Boys were pointed out to me who were ruined for life. When I came on the board I was rather in favor of the Chinese, but after what I have seen my prejudices Would do any- are very strong against them, and I would do almost anything to rid them thing to get rid of" them. A perfect curse. from our city. I think they are a perfect curse to our state.

I have enquired very thoroughly into the disease of leprosy. I am told Leprosy. it takes from three to five years to run its course-to develop after inoc- ulation. In conversation with gentlemen from the Sandwich Islands I was told that it originated there, some from Africans and some from Chinese. It is the same as the leprosy in the Sandwich Islands. It develops in dif- ferent ways. They live for years. One of the cases we had was such a terrible case that two of the Irish expressmen, who were assisting in placing them on board, became blind and could not see. It comes out in large projec- tions on their necks, on their cheeks, and on their noses. There seemed to be a white swelling there; and a good many of them had their nails tumble Its horrible out. The body dries up, as it were. My impression is that it cannot be effects. communicated otherwise than by flesh contact; but the Chinese seem to have taken it by sleeping in the same room. I think it goes from one generation to another. I was reading an account of its breaking out in Scotland, where a lady got together a number upon her place, and walled them in and kept them, and in that way killed the disease. I know in the Sandwich Islands they have set apart an island for. it. I never saw leprosy till within a year. I have seen, I suppose, twenty persons from the Sandwich Islands, including a gentleman from China who had been there, and they all described the symptoms as being the same there as here. It is what we call leprosy .. The

skin is a sort of whitish. They did not seem to have pain. I think the women that had it were brought as lepers from China. I heard of a dis- tinguished lawyer from the Sandwich Islands who died of it. I have no hesitation in saying, and I think the facts will be carried out in time, that we shall have a colony of lepers resulting from these Chinese. I have heard of cases of leprosy in North America and also in Canada. I do not think at the time of shipment of these lepers that the agent of the steamer un- derstood the opposition at that time. I told him afterwards that I had more to ship, and he said "no more," that he could not take them under any consideration. I cannot account for these people being passed by the Consul at Hong Kong. A Chinaman cannot leave this coast on his own account at the commutation rate of $12.50 which is what is paid by the companies. We paid full passages for these lepers : $52.50 or $53. They were corraled on the deck behind the capstan. There is no restraint on people coming from the Sandwich Islands. The travel between this coast and the Sandwich Islands is very small. At one time we used to get our sugar and potatoes from these islands, but I think not since 1853. We had a few Kanakas here-seamen. Seamen are in the habit of finding women in the ports where they enter, but there were very few women here at the time they were here, and those that were here I do not think were of the quality such as sailors would seek out. There was a very high character of prostitution here at that time; it cost so very high to get to the country.

In regard to the cubic-air ordinance we had 400 and odd in the goal. I cannot give the dimensions of the gaol exactly ; our gaol is small. The cells are on two stories, and those occupied by the Chinese were in the upper. There is a cellar underneath, and they were crowded mostly there ; they did not have 500 cubic feet of air, nor have the white men in the county gaol half that amount. There is a window in the rear of the cell with a large grating, so that they have a great deal of air. The lower prison is very well ventilated, but the upper one is a very bad one and a disgrace to the city. The centre of the city is moving south ; but we shall have to use these buildings in addition to others. Those confined in the county gaol are criminals, convicted for offences against the common law, not for breaches of ordinance. The queue ordinance is enforced all through ; in the county gaol upon those guilty of theft, and also in the city prison upon all convictions in the two courts. oners are liable to have their hair cut off. Where the fines are not paid the pris- The hoodlums are imprisoned for breaking ordinances, general ordinances, such as the law in reference to rows and assaults, etc., general drunks, and all that class. The ordinances do not duplicate the state laws, they are merely municipal. At the present time there are about 340 in the hospital ; not one China- man. The object of passing this ordinance was to free our prisons from criminals and as an extra punishment to the general class of people- Chinese and whites alike. There is a class confined who do not wish to go around with their short hair, and the cutting of the hair has made a differ- ence among this class, and they let their hair grow out because short hair has become a mark of disgrace. The ordinance was more particularly directed to the Chinese, and to prevent them submitting to imprisonment. There has not been a hundred who have had their queues cut off. The same law exists in the penitentiary ; they cut the hair of a Chinaman and of a white man in our state's prison here.

The city has paid large bills for cleaning-up, disinfecting, and abating nuisances in Chinatown ; we use the urgent-necessity fund through the

GIBBS

board of health. We cannot tell the health of Chinatown compared with other parts of the city ; we cannot tell when they are sick ; if we could we would like very much to have them in our hospitals to be taken care of, but they have a dread of our hospitals and will not report when they are sick. They will die, as in cases of small-pox, and we find them. I think that the Chinamen are cleanly in their persons. The Chinamen cleanly. ordinary Chinaman takes a wash every day, and I think in that way they are comparatively healthy. The cases of death are very large, more I think, in proportion than among the whites. As far as cleanliness of person is concerned they compare favorably with the Americans, but in their crowd- Crowding. ing together they breathe foul air. The rooms in which they live are filthy, and there is a stench arising from them. 'If you go into any In lower class of Chinese house, with the exception of those of the better class of China- houses a perfect men, or around them, you will find a perfect stench around them. stench.

GEORGE W. DUFFIELD, connected with the Police Department for ten DUFFIELD. years, who does special duty in the Chinese quarter, sworn and ex- amined :

The lower class of Chinamen are a bad class of people, but there is a class in the Chinese quarter who are very clean merchants, men who Crimes. keep stores.

I have had occasion to arrest Chinamen for all classes of crimes-lar- ceny, grand larceny, etc., fighting, cutting one another, and offences prin- cipally among themselves. I find a great deal of difficulty sometimes in tracing Chinese criminals from others trying to shield them. Sometimes I am able to procure convictions on Chinese testimony. Crimes of vio- lence, as a general thing, if they can get out on bail, they will try and fix up among themselves, no matter what the offence, unless it is murder. As a general thing Chinamen give bail. The testimony of white men stands high as compared with that of the Chinese.

The Chinese quarter among the lower class, the poorer class, is very dirty -- over two-thirds of the whole.

The Globe Hotel, formerly used as a hotel, would, perhaps accommodate Effect on houses. 150 guests. I should think there would be 100 or 110 rooms in it, some large and some small. Since the place has been occupied by the Chinese they have changed the character of the rooms. In a high room they will build a kind of platform and sleep on this platform, making a kind of two stories of it, occupying both floors. Sometimes there are as many as 300 or 400 in the hotel. The building is very dirty -the stairways, floors, etc .; the walls are black with dirt, accumulations of years, since they have been living in it. They employ men to sweep it, but they never wash it or clean it. The out-houses and privies are very dirty. They have regu- lar pumps and patent water-closets, where it runs into the open sewer in the street, where the stench is very bad, which arrises, I suppose, from the filth and dirt that accumulates there and from opium.

A great deal of opium is smoked in Chinatown. Some Chinamen don't Opium. smoke it at all, but a great many do. I cannot tell the proportion. The smoke of opium is not a bad smell. I like the smell myself, but I never took a whiff in my life. The other stenches are not so agreeable.

Some of the women in Chinatown are prostitutes, and some are mar- Women. ried to Chinamen. About two-thirds are prostitutes. Some of them lately have been making button-holes and pantaloons-the slop-made

220

goods the Chinese make. They have closed up all their houses, princi- Number of prosti- pally since the mayor and the chief have been in office. There are not tutes reduced by one-half. over one-half the prostitutes that there were when they came into office. They have gone to China and some to the country. I cannot tell how many. I was down to a Chinese steamer the night before last, and I saw some sixteen going on board. There are none arriving now. They live in very small places, some rooms being ten by ten, some twelve by twelve, and some smaller. In some houses there may be five or six, sometimes one or two, or two or three. I have known them to try and escape. If they succeed they are very seldom brought back. They go to Mr. Gib- son's place, or come to the station-house for protection.

Humanity.

Some of them, I believe, take very good care of their sick, and some do not. I have found sick on the street; I have taken them to the city hall sometimes. I do not know whether they got out themselves or whether anybody had taken them out : they were sitting on doorsteps, and the Chinamen around paying no attention to them. The Five Points in New York never was so bad as Chinatown.

Testimony unreliable.

I do not think they have much regard for oaths. They are sworn in court the same as any other witness. In 1852-53-54, they used to burn papers to swear them in court. Among themselves I believe they use animals.

Police paid by the Chinese.

I am connected with the city government the same as other police officers, only I am paid by the Chinese. I collect from the stores up there. on the beat. I get from some a dollar, some half a dollar, and some two bits in a week. I cannot tell what it amounts to in the aggregate. I sometimes get more ; I cannot tell the average. Sometimes it amounts to $50. They pay me just what they think fit. I make no demand, and they are under no obligation to pay. It has been the custom for them to pay for the last twenty-five years; ever since the Chinamen have been there. There are special policemen in other parts of the city, and the white peple pay in the same way. There are 250 or 275 policemen in the city dependent upon the contributions of the people for their support, and who get no salary from the government. My duties are both day and night.

Chinatown.

The streets of Chinatown are just as clean as any other part of the city ; but the alleys are dirtier than the alleys in other parts. I have never seen any other part of the city as bad and low. There are other quarters inhabited by a low order of white people.

Poll-tax collected from Chinamen going to China.

I have seen officers stand at the gang plank and collect a poll-tax on Chinamen leaving for China, but no collection from white passengers. When a cargo of 1,000 or 1,200 arrive each man goes to his company- house and mixes with the others, or go to their stores. When women arrive they are sometimes taken into their stores or into their houses ; there is. no special house or regular depot for them.

Unsatisfactory police arrange- ments.

Besides myself there are some six or seven special policemen in China- town. They are more numerous there in proportion to the population than in any other part of the city, and they would not be there if the Chinese did not support them voluntarily. I render no state- ment to the department of the amount I receive ; I have not received as high as $500 in a month; I collect every week, but do not keep any account by months. It is a position capable of abuse and could be used as a means of oppression by a bad man. I was not appointed at the soli- citation of the Chinamen, but by the police commissioners, and because another man resigned. I solicited the position. I did not purchase it. The regular pay of a city policeman is $125 per month. I cannot tell

DUFFIELD

within $400 or $500 what my receipts are. I pay for cleaning the streets from what I get from the Chinese. It costs $40 or $50 a month. A white man goes around every morning with a cart. I agreed to perform How the streets this duty, and if the streets are unreasonably dirty the fault would fall are kept clean. on me. The alleys are swept every day and kept clean. I have nothing to do with the vaults, back-houses, or things of that kind. The Health Office looks after that. The rest of the city is cleaned by the superin- tendent of streets. I have seen a corporation cart on my beat but twice Sanitary. in five years. The city does not provide means for cleaning Chinatown, because the Chinese pay for it themselves. The alleys are dirty, but no garbage, or anything like that. I believe there are officers who are re- quired to go around and see the condition of the streets and alleys. If the corporate authorities attended to this matter, I do not think they would pay me for it, and I see that the alleys are kept clean. As a general thing they are kept as clean as other alleys, but they will bring dirt out and deposit it on the alleys and I have it taken away. If receptacles in which to put their dirt were furnished them the city would not provide means for removing it. Since the present mayor has been in office, the practice has been to have a health officer visit there every day. The rest of Chinatown is under the supervision of other special policemen who perform the same duties as myself. My beat is one block. The city contract with a company to keep the streets clean.

ARNOP BAINBRIDGE, police officer for over seven years, sworn and BAINBRIDGE. examined :

The interior of the buildings in Chinatown is generally filthy. The Sanitary. streets are kept as clean as they can be under the existing population. They are cleaned, under the system mentioned by the last witness, three mornings in the week, before daylight or just at daylight. The Chinamen How Chinatown bring their filth and dirt out in baskets, that has accumulated during the is cleaned. interim, and dump them in the streets for the carts to take away. They generally dump it between twelve and three in the morning, and the carts come along at half-past three to four, according to the season of the year, and work until they have carried it off. I do not know that the amount of filth brought out lessens the amount inside. In their quarters they are very much crowded. They pay less rent individually, probably, than any other class of people, but they pay a greater rent for a building by 100 per cent. than our poorer classes of white people. I have seen as Crowding. many as forty or fifty in a room like this-about twenty-two feet square. They would have an upper deck, two stories in a room of this kind, the sleeping arrangements above. They generally cook in the same rooms, but in the more crowded places, where they could not stand the smoke, They take their cooking into the hallway. Their cooking appli- ances generally are composed of a coal-oil can with a brick in the bot- tom. Rice is their staple article of food, but they eat dried fish and dessicated vegetables. Tea is a staple among the better classes, it being seldom used among the lower grade. The cost of supporting fifty Chinese, including their lodging, living as described, would pro- bably be $10 a day, providing one person had the purchasing and disbursement of the money-about twenty cents a day each. The class I refer to are workingmen. Idlers, and vagrants, and thieves live in about the same style. They live like this when they start

BAINBRIDGE

As they prosper live better. to work in the factories, and as they improve and accumulate some of our silver coin they occasionally live at restaurants. There are a great many restaurants in the Chinese locality where a Chinaman can get a bowl of soup for five or ten cents, according to the grade of their custom.

Prostitution.

Shamelessness of Chinese prosti- tutes.

As to prostitution, I have often been called upon to suppress disturb- ances in places I should term houses of prostitution. I have found men in their deshabille and women in the same way. They are very low. They have no shame as to exposing their person or explaining or talking about the act that they were about to consummate or had consummated. They never seem to display any shame at all ; it seemed to be a natural thing for them, as if they had been educated from the cradle and knew nothing but that style of life. They hire premises with about ten feet frontage and the depth of this room. They apportion a small space which the boss lady of the house will use as a kind of reception-room, and the girls will congregate around her ready to attend to a customer. They then divide the balance of the space into three rooms, or, if it is wide enough, three on each side, probably six by eight feet in dimensions. The partition scarcely ever runs more than six or seven feet above the floor; it never goes to the ceiling except in extraordinary cases where they have these places up-stairs.

Opium-smoking.

As to their smoking opium, since the ordinance came into effect I have not had much chance of observation on the outside ; but, when I was on the outside, and before it came into operation, I saw a great deal of it. I never entered a Chinese domicile of any kind but what I saw the signs -that is, the platforms upon which they lie, and their pipes, and sundry other signs or symbols of the practice, and every watch that I was on I saw them under the influence of it. In showing visitors around I could invariably take them in and show them Chinamen under the influence of opium. If all the Chinamen who were drunk with opium were on the streets, we should have more Chinamen arrested for drunkenness under its influence than white people under the influence of whiskey ; but they draw on it until they become insensible and then slumber it off.

Gambli g.

The game of tan explained.

In relation to their gambling, what is termed tan is their principal game. It is played with small cash pieces, a small brass Chinese coin with a square hole cut in the centre. They will have a large pile of them, probably 300 or 400. The dealer sits at the end of the table with an in- verted bowl -- a tin bowl usually. These pieces are all scrambled up together in a heap, and the dealer places a cup on the top. While the cup remains there they make their bets, and the moment he gives the word the bets are closed. He has a piece of whalebone stick, tapered, brought down to a little bow on the end. He rakes out the pieces by one, two, three. They are all counted except the last four. They make their bets as whether one will be left, or two, three, or four, or whether it is even or odd on the four last counted. He takes all those on the edge of the bowl first, and when he raises the bowl the betting is stopped, and he counts those under the bowl. If one remains, and a man has bet that one will remain, he gets four. If he bets that it is even and it comes two, he gets the amount -- that is, two ; or if he bets odd and it comes one, As many as 60 sit he wins. I have seen as many as sixty sit around a table at once. It is ostensibly a game of chance, but it can be made a game of skill by the dealer, who can make it odd or even by concealing a piece up his sleeve and letting it fall while he is handling them. The placing of the bowl upon the table is merely preliminary to the betting. Everything is counted finally. Fifty or sixty might win at a time if it came their way, if they all bet one way. The dealer is the banker, and if it is a large-

round a table.

BAINBRIDGE

game there is a kind of paying-teller who sits behind the dealer and Betting from ten attends to the cash. I believe there is a certain percentage, but that I sometimes $5 and cents to a $1; could never get at thoroughly. The betting is generally from ten cents $10. to half a dollar ; some better off in funds will bet $5 to $10. Gambling is a natural passion. There are more professional gamblers among them than of any other class of people in the world except Indians ; but the Indians are not professional, they are general gamblers. More Chinamen Chinese the great- seem to live off the receipts, or being connected with gambling, than any est gamblers in the world. other class. It is very hard for a white man to get in under any circum- stances. I have often attempted it. I believe I made the first arrest in the tan business, where I convicted the dealers, within the last ten years ; that was five years ago. I struck a portly Chinaman, and I walked up briskly close to him, and got by the doorkeeper and was beside the dealer before any one saw me. Had I been seen the door would have been shut in my face and a bar placed across it in an instant. They now have doors three and four inches thick. Sometimes there is an outer door and an inner one. If they get the first door closed on you that is about Does not think all that is necessary to enable them to escape through a scuttle or window. If their places were forced by means of battering rams or grape and canister, I believe they would get upon the roof and have their games there. I do not think it could be stopped under any legal restrictions whatever.

They have lotteries as well, and they are carried on on the same prin- ciple as the policy business in the eastern states was carried on when I was a boy.

They hardly ever accumulate money. There may be a few in the washing Gambling pre- business who may accumulate a little, but they have such an inveterate passion for gambling that it nearly all goes that way, eventually finding its way into the merchants hands, who are the only ones that can raise any considerable amounts in the city. Chinamen who work in the country occasionally bring down a few dollars, and if they get away to China quickly or are allowed to go they take it with them. Those who accumulate generally entrust their funds to the inspector or head men of his own company. They do not use our banks of deposit. The merchants as business men have to use our banks, but not the working classes.

I do not see how they retain health in the atmosphere they live in. I Horrible atmos- had occasion to visit a Chinaman who had been shot through the shoulder, phere in which Chinamen live. the ball shattering his shoulder-blade into small pieces. He was living in the basement. I went down probably eight or ten steps. The basement on either side was built up with small compartments about the size of a compartment in a sleeping car. The atmosphere in the passage way was so terrific that I almost lost my breath. I found the Chinaman lying there with his sore covered up with a large patch of some kind of medical stuff that the Chinese doctors cover over all wounds. It was suppurating and festering. I asked him : " How do you live here ?" He said : "Very good." That is about a fair average of the places the common class reside in.

There are three or four places in the city that are called hospitals or Chinese hosp,tals. asylums. The Kin Yung Company have one on Broadway. I have been there several times, and have seen them lying around on the floor, but I never saw anything that would denote that there was any medical attendance given them. I have seen the same in the old Se Yup build- ings, where I had occasion to go at late hours. They have men who advertise and call themselves physicians ; I do not know the kinds of medicine they give. I know that several of the doctors here claim to

Chinese gambling. could be stopped.

vents them accu- mulating money.

"BAINBRIDGE

cure almost anything with herbs and roots, vegetable products of different kinds. I have heard talk of such things as snakes being imported for medicines. In a great many cases the Chinaman desires to be taken to his own hospitals or quarters when trouble has been among themselves. It is a matter of dollars and cents. If he is wounded or cut, or anything of that kind, and the other can approach his friends they will try and settle the matter up with money and get him away. The longer their residence here the better they understand our usages, and they learn to have more confidence in our physicians. I have a general idea that I have known some of our noted physicians here to have Chinese cases among the merchants and better classes of Chinese ; it is not a common thing.

The markets in Chinatown are very well supplied with vegetables used in making soup. They use a great quantity of pork ; the better part being sent to the white butchers in the market for curing and sale, the Chinese retaining the offal and rough parts, the parts of which the white people make sausages. There are a great many smoked hams in the Chinese restaurants, which are generally well supplied with food. In some of them you can get anything you call for.

Ten per cent. of the money lost in gambling finds its way into the pockets of the Chinese gentlemen who back the game-the bank-and Do not send much finally goes into merchandise. My general belief is that nearly every one money out of the of them.is interested in more or less gambling, or more or less houses of pros- country. titution. I do not think the laboring classes send much money out of the country.

A great many of the companies' sick are put out in the street and there found helpless, being' left uncared for because they are no longer pro- ducers. They pay fees to the companies.

One of the Chinese doctors, Li Po Ta, had a considerable practice among the white population. At one time there was quite a demand for him here. I think there are about a dozen of them practising. They advertise in the American papers. The Chinese generally call in their own physician. When they call in an American physician it is exceptional ; generally for a surgical operation, as they seem averse to losing any portion of their frame if they can help it. The ordinary Chinamen lately imported have more confidence in their own physician ; those who have been here a long time prefer others.

I cannot say that I have seen the better class of merchants, or scholars and students in the mission schools, gambling. I have seen men I have known to be connected with the missions, in the vicinity of gambling houses and around such places. I never saw a Mexican, high or low, but what was an inveterate gambler ; but I class them with Indians.

There are cases of buying for purposes of prostitution among whites.

Witness reiterates that the Chinese butchers supply the white butchers with the best part of the animal. They buy from the killer and sell to the curer.

They have a great reverence for their queues, and consider it an indignity for one to touch it. I would not cut one off unless it was a thief's. I believe they cut off the hair of all prisoners incarcerated in the county gaol by conviction or sentence.

ROGERS

JAMES R. ROGERS, police officer for six years, sworn and examined :

As far as the Chinese women are concerned in this city, with very few Chinese pros- exceptions, I look upon them as prostitutes, and not free women ; sold as slaves for such and such an amount of money, to be worked out at pros- titution. I think there were from 800 to 1,200 in the city last January. Evidence has been produced in the police court that they are held and bound for this service.

The Globe Hotel is not a fair sample of the mode in which the Chinese live in Chinatown. It was formerly a first-class hotel, and there are a great many rooms there. Those rooms are now occupied by different parties of Chinamen, each one distinct and separate in itself. One Chi- naman hires the whole building and then sub-lets. There are not as many massed together in that hotel as in various other portions of Chinatown, the population of which I estimate at 30,000. The domestics around the Population 30,000. -city congregate there nightly, and go back home at two or three o'clock in the morning ; some, perhaps, are not allowed to leave the families they belong to, but as a general thing Chinatown is headquarters for the Chinese.

Some two or three years ago we had an institution called the Hip Ye A Chinese secret Tung, and we used every means to break it up. We tried to find out the society. bottom of it but failed. I think it has been broken up under that name, but I believe the same institution exists under another name, which I cannot recall. I remember seeing a Chinaman named Look-Chung with a knife stuck in his back. He was in the drug business, and had a partner. His partner had to leave and go to China, or he would probably have met the same fate. He has since returned and is in the city. This was the result of a raid on the Globe Hotel, when we were enforcing the Do not obey .cubic-air law. They do not obey the municipal law, if they can avoid it. municipal law.

I think the presence of the Chinese here has a very disastrous influ- Chinese pros- ence on our young men who visit the Chinese houses of prostitution. bad influences. titutes exercise Besides the young men who visit them there are a great many old men, and a great many men in good standing in this town who go there.

As witnesses they have no regard for our oaths. I have had Chinese Evidence untrust- ·cases in court, when one side would come and ask me how many witnesses worthy. the other side had, and when they found out that the other side had the most they would go out and gather in sufficient to counteract it in numbers.

There have been half a dozen hotels absorbed by the Chinese, and a Baptist church. Dr. Stone's church is shut up. A portion of the Baptist church is used for prostitutes, and the general use of Chinamen. They sleep there and live there. Whether there is any gambling I do not know. It is a large building, and formerly a very large congregation worshipped there. It was the First Baptist church of San Francisco.

Assaults upon Chinese in other parts of the city is not of common Chinese assaulted occurrence, although it may be frequent, and comes from a class of young of employment. by young men out men who are out of employment. I never saw any Chinamen molested riding in a street car. They walk our streets not only by day, but all hours of the night, without molestation, cases of assault being exceptional. A gang of boys, perhaps, get together, and if a Chinaman passes them, they may do something to him. I do not think they assault or beat them, but, perhaps, insult them occasionally. If those boys had employment, they would not be out at that hour of the night. The Chinese work in The assaults factories. The assaults upon them are exceptional, because I do not hear exceptional. of them as frequently as I should if they were common. Arrests are

titutes slaves.

15

ROGERS

always made if it is possible to do so, and convictions upon those arrests. Stones are thrown at processions and still arrests do not follow. I have Fatal assaults on known of Chinamen being assassinated. There is a white man serving a Chinamen. sentence for life at this time for killing a Chinaman. There was another arrested for killing a Chinaman by splitting his head open with a piece of scantling, but whether there was a conviction I cannot say. I have heard of their being assaulted coming from the steamers. In the course of my official career, I have heard of white men having knives stuck in them by white men ; and I know of one case of a Chinaman having a knife. stuck into him, and any amount of them who have been injured or- mutilated.

Hoodlums.

A large proportion of the hoodlums would go to work in factories and in other trades if they had the chance. The class I speak of are too idle to go to school. Our young men, outside of the hoodlum element, compare favorably with those of the same class in other cities.

Arrests made under cubic-air ordinance.

Some time ago I was engaged in arresting the Chinese under the cubic- air ordinance. I arrested fifty or sixty on the corner of Sacramento and Stockton streets. I took them down to the city prison. I think there- was more air in the prison than in the building I took them from. They were placed in the corridor, not in cells, until next morning. I arrested some 1,100 altogether under this ordinance. I think all were convicted, with one exception, that is, with the exception of those taken from one room. Three quarters of them paid their fines, the other quarter going to gaol. Their queues were not cut off, because the ordinance was not in effect at that time, and it was afterwards declared unconstitutional, when we stopped cutting off their queues. I think another ordinance has recently been enacted. I do not know a case of arrest of a white man under that ordinance.

TOBIN.

JOHN T. TOBIN, six years a resident in China, sworn and examined :

I have resided in Hong Kong, Canton and Shanghai. In the latter place I resided three years and ten months. My occupation was that of detec- tive for the police force under the municipal government, my duties lying outside of the city through the country. Shanghai is a city of Chinese inhabitants ; several cantons. Outside of the city there are English, French, and American merchants.

Chinese a des- picable race.

From observation I came to the conclusion that they were the most despicable race I ever came across, and I have travelled nearly the whole world through. In three cases out of every five the witness for the defendant would commit perjury.

In Shanghai live in a very poor way.

They live in a very poor way. The coolie inhabitants of the city there labor for from twenty to twenty-five cents a day, when they can get employment, and it costs them about fifteen cents a day to live. They generally live upon rice and a kind of greens-cabbage they call it in that country-which they salt down, and a little fish and salt pork. Chinese pork is fed on everything that is refused by every other animal or anything at all in the country. I have seen the pigs eat things that would be disgusting for me to mention to the Commission. There is a particular kind of breed of hogs there for the use of the Chinese. They have not the appearance of any other hog I have seen in any part of Europe or America. They eat every part of the animal : the poorer peo- ple take the offal, and the richer people take the meat.

The poor eat offal.

TOBIN

My experience of them as to their children is that all the females who keep brothels and opium houses in every part of China go into the country and buy up small children from two to five years of age, bring them into cities and there keep them as servants for the older girls em- prostitution. ployed as prostitutes until they become of age to make them such. The poor people, the parents from whom they are bought, receive from $5 to $10 apiece for them, according to their appearance ; and this buying and selling of females for this traffic is a matter of open notoriety where I have been in China. The morals of the people Character of Chinamen in are very low. Among the middling and lower classes I never found two China. honest people out of ten in regard to truth or honesty. Larceny is a continual thing there from morning to evening. There is nothing but arrests being brought in for that crime. What they term the cangue in China is the most particular kind of punishment for these crimes. It is Crime and its two boards, the shape of the neck, locked together around the neck of China. the prisoner, who is fed twice a day from rice water outside of the place where the crime has been committed, and the bill of the crime committed is the shape of the board. There are other punishments for crimes more serious. They put them in a cage in the city in a position for every passer- by to see them, and for piracy and burglary they behead them. They go through the regular process of law. It is a kind of mixed court. There are American, English and Chinese interpreters in every court there, and they try them by the mixed court. It is the municipal law of Shanghai. I have seen, when I have been in cities outside of Shanghai, prisoners. taken for robbery or piracy executed in two days by beheading. I have been in Ningpo, a city of about 200,000 inhabitants where they have something equivalent to our trial by jury. They have something like a magistrate they call a tippoo, the under magistrate, and the governor of the city, and four other smaller mandarins constitute the court. That is. the final decision. I have never seen any appellate court.

Their habits are filthy. Even in the streets of Shanghai, where there Habits filthy. are English, French, and Americans, they are continually sitting on the sidewalks, and arrested every day for the most filthy habits.

Their houses of prostitution are conducted openly. The opium-houses Houses of prosti- are houses of a different description from the regular houses of prostitu- dens conducted tion. They are houses where men go to smoke opium; and they each openly. keep a certain number of girls for those men to go with when they feel like it, being open day and night on the public streets. In the other houses there is no opium-smoking, but they keep from fifteen to twenty girls in some of the largest places. I know of no other mode of sup- plying them with girls as already stated, except on some occasions where girls from the age of fourteen to twenty are brought in also and dis- posed of to these houses. During my residence of four years I never Marriage. witnessed more than ten weddings or marriages among the lower and middling classes of people. That was all done among the higher class-the merchants. They buy a bride first and then havea wedding with a priest, and it is an open public ceremony. The middling class of people generally go together. On some occasions you might find one out of ten where they go to a Joss-house and get the services of a priest. As a rule they form these liaisons on contracts among themselves. Never, that I know of, are they true to the marriage relation when they assume it. They would sell themselves, according to my experience. I have seen several from · that part of Shanghai in the port of San Francisco, but not natives of Shanghai-natives of Canton, Hong Kong, and Whampoa.

I have seen criminals tortured in the city of Shanghai. Screws applied

Children systema- tically raised for

f punishments in

tution and opium

TOBIN

Execute :substitutes.

Cruel punishment. to the wrists, and a place between two boards. I have seen them where the boards were set together by screws. The executions take place in a public square in the Chinese city. No executions take place where there are Europeans and Americans living. I have seen as many as sixteen exe- cuted at one time. On one occasion, the last I had anything to do with, they tried to substitute a man stupefied by opium for the criminal. On this occasion I knew it was not the right man. The man who committed the murder was a Canton man and the one they brought out was a Shanghai man. They beheaded the right man eventually, after torturing him terribly, although I was not a witness to the torture. The Canton man was worth some money in his own country, and they were trying to get it from him. The gentleman who was murdered was Mr. Dore of the British Navy. English and American marines were at the execution to see it carried through. I have known prisoners committed for piracy and burglary escape through sums of money, and others substituted in their place. The mandarins mentioned as forming part of the court do not serve in each case. They choose them by the tribunal for that service. Witnesses are sworn in their own form of oath. In the mixed court in Shanghai they swear them by an oath on a piece of paper read to them, and then lighted from a light on the magistrate's table and burned, repeating the words that are on the paper until it is burned up, and then he breaks it in ashes. It does not cause them to tell the truth. In China where I have been there is, to a certain extent, a great deal of regard for human life, but there is no humanity to the sick. I have seen cripples and sick people turned out upon the streets to die there, and they have died. There is a certain number of sick that they take to the Joss-houses and leave them outside of the doors, and passers-by can give them any money they like to give them ; others are left out on the side-walks not near any Joss-house at all, and left to die. I suppose I have taken up over 300 dead Chinamen during my stay there.

Form of oath.

Inhumanity .

Unnatural offences.

I have never seen sodomy committed between man and man, but I have seen it with beasts, and detected them in the act-with hogs, dogs and ducks-but not in a great number of cases. They were committed by the municipal law. Every refreshment house is a gambling house; they license them. Prostitution is not looked upon as a degrading occupation; it is carried on openly. I know of rich persons in Shanghai who bought the wives they married. Have known people leaving their wives to people they are in debt to in lieu of such deht. They marry prostitutes out of the houses.

Population of Shanghai.

Shanghai is a walled city about three miles and a half around. Inside the wall is the city. Outside there are 50,000 northern Chinamen and 20,000 or 25,000 Cantonese. They are not of the lowest class. One-third of them in proportion to population are superior to those in the city of Canton; but they were very bad indeed. As a general thing the people inside Shanghai are worse than those outside.

No intermarriage.

No difficulty in proving perjury against them.

Some class idle .and thieves.

Never heard of intermarriage between Europeans and Chinese; they cohabit together and buy them. Have seen a few half-breed children, half of whom are German, a part English and the rest American.

The lower class of people are generally idle and mostly live by stealing rice, padi, and other articles. In the shops they are not idle, they support themselves ; but the coolies are idle and are thieves.

·Chinese sailors.

Chinese sailors are employed on vessels belonging to the Pacific Steam- ship Company. They make pretty good sailors, but in case of fire or a

TOBIN

storm at sea they go to their quarters. They could not save a ship at sea in danger.

The authorities are not very prompt in administering justice for outrages Justice not committed on foreigners if the culprit is a wealthy man, but if a poor man impartial. it would be administered right away.

Mrs. SOPHRONIA SWIFT, a resident of San Francisco for twenty-three SWIFT. years, sworn and examined :

I have long been interested in the many industries of this city, especial- Chinese have ly with reference to my own sex who have to support themselves. I often out of light receive letters from my friends in the east in regard to coming here for employment. employment. I answer that the avenues which were once open here to immigration from eastern places are all filled up. At one time there was a large number of young girls in the shoe factories. Many of them, under my supervision, went into places and learned to fit shoes. Immediately after that the Chinese came in, taking the labor from the women as well as from their fathers and brothers. The same thing occurred in regard to shirt-making. About ten years ago they commenced manufacturing them here by women. Very soon the Chinese came in, making the shirts for forty cents which we had a dollar apiece for. Then the button-hole work, the finishing, was given to women, for which they got from twenty to thirty cents a dozen, and sometimes as high as sixty cents a dozen for finishing up. That was the first of the Chinese taking our work. From that they went to sewing machines, and now the fluting that is made to put on ladies' dresses, the hemming, the heavy work in dress-making, is done in many instances by Chinamen. The same in regard to fluting that ladies wear around their necks; that is done by Chinamen. All the Chinese stepped avenues that they can step in and fill they have filled. Where a man into every avail- able avenue. used to do the work, having a small family, the wife doing her own work, perhaps educating three or four children, the Chinaman does the work and the man is thrown out of employment. I have many times gone to differ- ent places for situations for children and have found Chinamen filling the places that children should occupy. The Chinese do the principal wash- ing of San Francisco. The effort for the education of the Chinese to They have taken Christianity has taken the bread from our little girls and little boys, and the bread out of the mouths of from our husbands and fathers. The Protestant people have encouraged little girls and it. boys.

I think their bad moral condition is purely the result of slave-labor. Slave-labor. We are in a city where the lower industries are filled by slave-labor, or coolie-labor, which is the same. The lighter industries have been occupied by the Chinese. The elder children of the early immigrants have grown to manhood and womanhood, and they have three or four smaller ones. The children say: " I am not going into anybody's house and work with Chinamen." The women, the mothers, have attempted to step out into outside employments requiring brain-work, and they have found it very hard to find employment outside when they could not find it at home. Have taken the You can find them now in many places where you would not wish your work of women who have been sisters, or mothers, or wives to be, not because they are any worse than driven into yours but circumstances have driven them there from want of employ- service .. questionable. ment. When immigrants do come here they find the crops harvested in haste by the Chinese. Even our native Indians cry aloud on account of this population of coolies. The Indians used to come into Sonoma and

driven white girls

Marin, and Napa, and those counties where large potato crops are har vested, and get work to do, and take wheat and barley and carry it back to the hills for the winter. They cannot have that work now.

I consider the existence of the hoodlums is owing to the Chinese being here.

The Chinese make overalls worn by men, make stockings, knit at factories, make undershirts and drawers at our factories ; the looms which were occupied once by women are occupied now by Chinese. They make all the work that is done on sewing machines such as gentlemen's shirts. In early days the price for making a shirt was as high as two and a half and three dollars, ten years ago it was a dollar and a half, eight years ago you could contract by the 100 for a dollar apiece furnishing your own material.

I do not wish to be misunderstood in regard to the religious question of Protestants assisting Chinese. I do not charge them with attempting to do us a wrong, but they stepped out to save these poor heathen souls, a thing these heathen do not appreciate, while at the same time they are taking bread from their own children. If the church had never taken a step to assist these Chinese, they would never have occupied the position in private residences that they do. The higher classes have encouraged it to the detriment of their own nation. A Chinese boy attends Sunday school to learn to read and write, and then a situation is found for him at a dollar a week. As soon as he has worked one week he will pick up the use of every utensil around the house. The next week they take him from that place and get him $2.50 ; and with a class of poor people who cannot keep servants, the mother is compelled to teach these young Chinamen, so that they may go into another family and get better wages. Almost all our people employ Chinese servants.

A very large number of women are now out of employment. The most natural industry, her natural sphere, is making home what it should be. I would not call them house-servants, for I do not consider there is any more service in a woman working in a house than a man working in a store. If labor is service then it comes under that name. Domestic ·servants get from $15 to $20; a cook from $30 to $40, according to the amount of work. Chinamen, as domestic servants, work for from $1 up to $50 or $60. They do not like to work for poor people who have not jewelry, diamonds, and silver, and a great deal of provisions on hand that they can carry off. They are considered amongst some people good cooks. They attend to just one branch ; not like our women who have to do sewing, all the house-work, take care of children, and do washing and ironing. As servants, the Chinese are not reliable. When a woman is classed as a servant and the Chinese are classed as servants, and she is put in the same catalogue, to eat in the same kitchen, at the same table, and sleep in the same cellar or in the same garret, she will not work in private families where Chinese are employed.

Shirts made by the Chinese are no cheaper. Their labor makes the rich richer and the poor poorer, and it is a matter of making money regardless of the humanitarian rights of our people.

The surplus of coolie-labor prevents our valleys from being occupied with the best of our American people.

The great obstacle in the way of labor to the laboring class here, particularly to my own sex, is the aversion to labor with this inferior race. They look upon it as degrading. Where a second girl is wanted in a family where they keep two or three-a coachman, a cook, and a girl for the dining-room, if a Chinaman is in the kitchen, the girl will not go,

SWIFT

and vice versa. If they have a Chinaman in the garden and an errand boy the best woman cook will not go, because she will not mix with them. They might get employment if they would work with this inferior race.

ALEXANDER BADLAM, Assessor of the city of San Francisco, and a long BADLAM. resident, sworn and examined :

The result of enquiries through my department and information fur- nished by the deputies sent out by me the last few days to gather statistics, is as follows : I find Chinamen engaged in the following industries :- In the manufacture of cigars, about 2,800 ; cigar boxes, about 350 ; in clothing, in- Industries in cluding overalls, shirts, etc., about 3,250 ; vegetable pedlers and gardeners, are engaged. about 2,500-it may reach a little over that ; in laundries, about 1,200 ; merchants, about 1,000, engaged in various occupations. Those who engage almost exclusively in gambling amount to between 1,500 and 2,000. They are marked down as professional gamblers. The laboring men among the merchants, porters, etc., amount to 650 ; in the match factories, ·engaged in making matches, about 100 or 150 ; in boots and shoes, from 1,500 to 2,000 -a little nearer 2,000 ; in woolen mills, from 500 to 700. There was a much larger number than this in the woolen mills, but their places have been filled by white labor, and they are being filled now. "They are changing them. Engaged in making white shirts there are only a little over 100. There were several hundreds in that business, but they are changing to white labor, believing it to be more advantageous. In tanneries about 400 ; engaged exclusively in making slippers, a little ·over 1,000 ; restaurant keepers and those engaged in Chinese restaurants, from 700 to 800 ; in and about Joss-houses, attendants, etc., very nearly 100 ; fishermen from 1,100 to 1,200. House-servants we have estimated by taking five or six blocks in a locality, and we estimate the number at from 5,000 to 6,000 as house-servants, cooks, etc. We have taken different wards and gone around the block, taking perhaps twenty blocks in the city as an average, and then taking the number of houses and residences. Dealers in old junks and chiffoniers, or rag pickers, from 500 to {00; that would include a class of persons who get around in the morning and take plank from sidewalks, and appropriate whatever they can pick up during the time the police are off duty, about six o'clock in the morning. Engaged in canning fruit, pickles, etc., 2,200 ; Chinese brokers, a little over 100. There are several other smaller establishments that they did not consider worth taking. The whole of the population is estimated at 30,000. These statistics add up 30,150. There are probably 200 or 300 loafers who do not do anything, and something like 100 engaged in driving express waggons, where they have their own. The women were not estimated. The Chinese occupy about nine blocks in Chinatown.

The assessable worth of real estate in San Francisco in round numbers is $190,000,000, and personal about $79,000,000. The real estate assessed to Chinamen does not amount to anything, perhaps $100,000 will cover it ; $100,000 about the their personal property was assessed this year in round figures at $500,000. value of the real estate for which Chinamen are assessed. The poll-tax refers to all classes alike ; it is $2 until July, and $3 after July and until January, and after January $4.

In the assessment of Chinamen we have a great deal of difficulty, the Great difficulty deputies reporting that they cannot believe any of them. When and in assessing Chinamen. wherever we find their property, we assess them in the same proportion of value as white people. As to their paying their taxes I cannot tell how

which Chinese

far they are delinquent. With the poll-tax we have more difficulty with them than any other class, because they trade receipts with each other, and we are compelled to put a distinctive mark on them.

The presence of Chinese in any community has the effect of blighting the value of real estate.

The property in Chinatown is owned by people of all nationalities.

In proportion to the population, in the rough, the Chinese pay more poll-tax than the whites. We collect it from them when they are leav- ing for China, it being impossible to collect it where they live, Chinamen look so much alike.

The country would have been much better off if no Chinamen had been here. I think they are a scourge in any country, and this opinion is held by ninety-nine one-hundredths of the whole community. Had they not come here the money that they have earned and carried to China would have been distributed among the poorer people, who would have benefited by it, and those that have become wealthy out of it would not have had so much.

In Napa and Sonoma counties there are very few people who like Chi- nese labor after having tried it. For the wheat crop they are not of any use. They are skilled in some little industries, such as in woolen mills, factories, cigar-making, etc., but take the farming interest there are more white people engaged than Chinamen.

Merchants putting up signs stating that they do not employ Chinamen in the production of their goods is one evidence of public opinion against them, but this does not amount to much. I think the industries would have been on a better basis if they had not the Chinese labor.

One per cent. per month is the interest required in investment of capi- tal. A great many industries carried on by white labor pay more than that- foundries and machinery, for instance. The manufacture of wooden- ware and brooms and brushes, etc., is carried on by Chinamen. This could be carried on successfully without them. Our idle population is made idle through cheap labor.

A surplus of labor here, thousands of men being out of employment. Never did believe much in the Christianizing of the heathen. I have. observed a deterioration of morals among the whites. Chinatown is extending. They lease property the same as other people do.

On being recalled the witness denied that the poll-tax was collected from the Chinese on their landing from the steamers. They are not residents until they have been here six months. No attention is paid to any one on arriving.

The assessed value of the property upon which the Chinese pay taxes is worth of property: about $500,000 - a little over. At $2.12 they would pay into the treasury about $11,000.

SAN FRANCISCO, October 26th, 1876 ..

CAMERON H. KING, sworn and examined :

The constitution of the Anti-Chinese Union provides for the formation of clubs throughout the state and no club can become a member of the organization without adopting a constitution which embodies articles to protect the Chinese. In this city there are 3,000 or 4,000 active members formed of all classes -including lawyers and other professional men-alto-

KING-

gether respectable people, mostly workingmen. These clubs have had an influence in preserving the peace and protecting Chinese residents. I think they have had a very beneficial effect.

The following is the constitution of the Union :--

" CONSTITUTION OF THE ANTI-CHINESE UNION.

" ARTICLE 1.

" Name.

"SECTION 1 .- This Association shall be called the "The Anti-Chinese Union.

" ARTICLE 2. " Objects.

" SECTION 1 .- Its objects are to protect the people of the United States from Objects of the . the degrading influences of Chinese labor in any form; to discourage and stop Anti-Chinese any further Chinese immigration ; to compel the Chinese living in the United Union .. States to withdraw from the country; and to unite, centralize, and direct the Anti-Chinese strength of our country to the end that good order and harmony may prevail, that no law may be violated, and the great objects herein enu- merated may be fully accomplished by the use of lawful means.

" ARTICLE 3.

" SECTION 1 .- This association shall be composed of the officers of, and five Constitution. (5) delegates from each anti-Chinese club in this State, which shall adopt a constitution in harmony with the constitution of this association.

"SECTION 2 .- Each anti-Chinese club in this State, desiring representation in this association hereafter, shall adopt a constitution which shall among other things contain the following provisions :-

" 1. That each member of that club shall pledge himself to abide by and obey the constitution and by-laws of that club, and not to employ Chinese labor, not to purchase any goods from any person who employs Chinese labor, and not in any manner to sustain, foster, or encourage either the Chinese or those who employ them.

"2. That measures shall be taken by that club to ascertain and publish the Persons employ -- names of persons and corporations employing Chinese, and when so officially ing Chinese to be announced by that club, or by any other regular anti-Chinese club belonging to boycotted. this association, as a supporter of Chinese labor, no member shall thereafter purchase any article or commodities from such person or corporation, or bestow patronage upon such person or corporation in any form whatever. No member shall vote for any Chinese employer for any office whatever.

"3. That any member of that club violating his pledge may be fined in an Fine. amount to be fixed by the club, or if the offence is a grave one, such member may, in the discretion of the club, be expelled. If a member be so expelled, the various clubs belonging to the association shall be notified thereof. No An expelled member of that club shall recognize or hold any intercourse, social or other- member to be sent wise, with any person so expelled from any club belonging to this organization. to coventry.

"4. That only lawful means shall be used in the suppression of Chinese immigra- Only lawful tion and the expulsion of the Chinese from the United States. The club shall means to be used. not arm its members, nor organize itself into a military company.

"5. That the club, and each member thereof, shall refrain from molesting, Violence to be abusing, or maltreating Chinamen and discourage and prevent, as far as pos- discountenanced. sible, all unprovoked assaults upon Chinese restaurants.

"SECTION 3 .- The anti-Chinese Union will not hereafter recognize any anti- Chinese club, until such club shall have adopted a constitution in accordance herewith.

" ARTICLE 4.

" SECTION 1 .- Any person aggrieved by the action of any club belonging to this association shall have the right to appeal from the decision of such club to this association ; and the decision of this association shall be final, and each club belonging hereto shall respect and enforce such decision.

ARTICLE 5.

" SECTION 1 .- Questions of a political, partisan character, or incompatible with Non-political. the true aim of this association, shall not be allowed for debate; nor shall politics ever be discussed in this association, or in [the clubs which compose it,

KING

except as it may be connected with the true objects and interest of this associa- tion and the principles which it espouses.

" ARTICLE 6.

" SECTION 1 .- This constitution can only be amended by giving one week's notice of intention so to do to the secretary, at a regular meeting, stating the nature and form of the amendment.

" ARTICLE 7.

Officers.

" SECTION 1 .- The officers of this association shall consist of one president, two vice-presidents, and such a number of honorary vice-presidents as the club shall elect, a recording secretary, a corresponding secretary and a treasurer, and an executive committee consisting of five (5) members elected by the club.

" SECTION 2 .- The duties of the several officers shall be such as usually apper- tain to the office, and also such as this association may hereafter prescribe.

" SECTION 3 .- The officers shall be elected immediately upon the adoption of this constitution, and every six months thereafter."

These anti-coolie clubs represent all nationalities and the membership is confined to no religion. [Extracts here read of the constitution of the Twenty anti- anti-coolie club of the 11th ward respecting members of the club not the county of San Francisco. Chinese leagues in employing Chinese. ] There are over twenty leagues in the county of San Francisco, averaging considerably over 100 members each.

Chinese labor degrades labor.

Effect of boy- cotting provision to induce those who employed Chinese to dis- charge them.

Chinese labor has a tendency to degrade the dignity of labor, the laboring man disliking to work beside a Chinaman feeling that he is not his social equal ; it has, to a certain extent, the same tendency that slave- labor had in the south formerly-being dishonorable labor because it was not free labor. [Reference was here made to another article of the con- stitution of the 11th ward club respecting the publishing of names of those who employed Chinese labor.] The effect of the article has been, in many cases, to induce those who employed Chinese to discharge them ; the real object of the club being to rid the country of the Chinese by any legal means. Similar provisions are undoubtedly in the constitutions of the clubs in other parts of the state. I had applications from the interior for the names of parties employing Chinese-especially shoe manufacturers- so that they could stop trading with them. The list is not now published.

White men cannot White men, as a rule, cannot live on the wages the Chinamen furnish 'live on the wages labor for. One of the objections to their employment is the cheapness of for which the Chinese work. their labor, that they can live so cheaply-ten cents a day-that it would force all the white labor out of the market. Cheap labor does not make the product any cheaper. Competition would eventually lower the price. Chinese labor and There is considerable difference between Chinese labor and labor-saving labor-saving machines. machinery. The Chinese are labor-saving machines applied to all purposes. If a sewing machine is run by a Chinaman then there are two labor-saving machines, doubling the difficulty of the laborer. The wife of a member of the anti-coolie league will not buy from a Chinese pedler or any one whom she has good reason to suppose buys of Chinese, and I presume a large number of the members do the same.

Advantages of high wages.

There are many similarities between the free-trade question and the cheap labor question. Our prices of grain and other articles are governed by the supply and demand and not by the cost of production. It would be better for the individual if he could produce cheaply, because he would make a greater profit. All other things being equal, a laborer who receives $2.50 a day is more likely to live well, and to lay by a margin of wages, than where he receives twenty-five cents. The better labor is paid, the better for the laborer ; but if it costs proportionately to live I do not know that there is any difference. It is not the money that is the value of labor, it is what it will buy.

KING

The third article of the constitution is to discourage and stop any fur- ther Chinese immigration, and to urge the withdrawal of the Chinese from the country, and is a part of the constitution of all the clubs at the present moment. They would be willing to accept a modification in the shape of The anti-Chinese a limit to arrivals and an excess of departures creating a constant drain on the Chinese here-limiting the immigration so that the emigration will exceed it.

leaguers would be willing to accept a regulative mea- sure limiting the immigration.

Labor will go where it can be paid. Free labor is the right to follow whatever vocation one pleases, under all the terms one pleases. There are two parties to constitute free labor, the employer being Frec labor. free to employ upon such terms as he can, and that without punish- ment. In the case of prohibiting an employer from employing a certain class of labor under the pain of having his business cut off, I would simply say that free labor combines to protect itself against slave labor. It was absolutely necessary for the white men to take that step. I think white operatives are being taken in at the different factories to replace the Chinese.

The Chinese civilization and our own are very different ; and Chinese are a very undesirable class of citizens. I do not think they can assimilate. It Cannot assimilate. would be impossible for an American to live like a Chinaman and be received into the society of American people, and if any white people lived as the Chinamen do under ground and crowded they would become diseased and sickly and incapable of performing their labor.

The condition of our artisans and our mechanics is better in this city than any other city in the union probably.

MAURICE C. BLAKE, a long resident of the city, and judge of the muni- BLAKE. cipal criminal court for eleven years, sworn and examined

Chinese witnesses pay less attention to our oaths than white witnesses, those appearing as witnesses being generally friends of the criminals and not of the better class of Chinamen. I think Chinese immigration Chinese immigra- ought to be discouraged but not stopped. It would be better for the tion ought to be community to have white labor to do the work than the Chi- not stopped. discouraged but nese, because a white man will probably make a citizen and be good for something besides labor, but Chinamen never will. There are some races of white men who make better laborers than other races, but I do not mean to say that I do not think, as far as mere labor is concerned, that the Chinese are not good laborers. I think they are very indus- Industrious. trious.

The police have a great deal of difficulty in hunting up testimony, but Testimony. I think Chinamen are easily convicted. He will deny everything, usually, and when put upon the stand will tell a story that will convict him. He has not, as a white man would have, any idea of telling a reasonable story in his own excuse. I think juries are a trifle swifter in convicting a Chinaman than a white man, as a general thing. I think that this sentiment that divides the community to some extent influences jurors. The defendant can testify for himself if he chooses. I have seen cases that depended on Chinese witnesses where the testimony seemed to be very fair, but I have noticed a good many cases where the witnesses seemed to have had a story that must have been the result of conference among themselves. The interpreter, if asked a question as to the cha- racter of a witness almost always answers that he is a good person. They

AKBLE

get into a formal way of interpreting. They say that it is often very difficult to give the nicer shades of meaning and distinction in the Chi- nese language, and it often happens that they will say this man speaks a particular dialect and it is difficult for him to understand it.

Perjury.

Perjury is committed daily in the court over which I preside, by all classes of witnesses-whites, Chinese, and blacks.

I know of one case of a Chinaman being pardoned, and very soon after wards being sent over again.

GEORGE. HENRY GEORGE, editor of the Evening Post, and Gas-Meters Inspector, sworn and examined :

Employment of Chinese not decreasing.

My observation leads me to a totally different conclusion from that stated by Col. Bee that the employment of Chinese is decreasing. I have observed that they are getting into new trades, for instance they are now going into deep mining. Lately they have been going into agriculture, besides the various trades. There is a Chinaman running a printing press in this city, and up about Marysville they are digging, as well as working as foundrymen and coppersmiths. They prevent immigration by lowering the rate of wages. If you go east on the Union Pacific, after a while you fail to find the Chinese domestic and are waited upon by white girls. If it were not for the presence of the Chinese in all these places we would have white girls, and they would in due course become married and make a permanent population. The essential thing about Chinese laborers is that they are cheap, and an injury, by reducing the rate of wages, and not lowering the price of the articles they produce. I do not think that the rate of wages enters into the cost of production.

Chinese laborers cheap and there- fore an injury.

If two establishments were engaged in the manufacture of shoes, one employing Chinese labor twenty-five per cent. cheaper than the other em- ploying whites, the shoes of the former would not be twenty-five per cent. cheaper; their labor would be; but so far as labor enters into the cost of manufacture it would be twenty-five per cent. less, and they could sell at a lower rate and make the same profit as the one employing white labor. The higher the price of labor, the greater is its efficiency. In the case of the reduction of wages you would not increase the efficiency of labor; Labor-saving ma- you would merely decrease the share in the product which the laborer chinery reduced wages. got. The effect of a labor-saving machine and of cheap manual labor is the same on the cost of production, with this difference: it might be the same so far as the employer was concerned, but it is a very different thing to the community at large. In the one case you increase the efficiency of labor ; in the other you merely decrease the laborer's share in the pro- duct and you may even lower the efficiency of labor. For instance, if the pro- duct were $100,000 and a labor-saving machine increased that amount twenty-five per cent., you would have a product of $125,000 to be divided among all concerned; but if you merely reduce the rate of wages you would simply have your product of $100,000, the only difference being that the em- ployer would get more and the employees less ; in other words labor-saving machinery makes the whole community richer ; it enables us to produce more with the same amount of labor ; reduction of wages does no such thing.

Distinction between cheap la- bor and highly paid.

In the matter of building ships, Adam Smith and Stuart Mill endorsed the belief that American labor, although higher paid, is really cheaper, efficiency considered, than English labor. Mr. Brassey, who has worked men in almost all countries of the world, states as the result of his obser-

GEORGE

vation that the highest paid labor is always the cheapest, efficiency con- sidered.

I do not know of any Chinese here learning the trade of setting type, Chinese as compo- but they are employed in English offices in the East as compositors, and sitors. - they make excellent compositors-what I mean by the East is China and other countries there.

The theory advanced by those who are in favor of Chinese immigration, that they are a great benefit to the state, will not hold water a minute.

The working and mechanical portion of this city is respectable, and as to the character of those who are opposed to Chinese immigration, instead of being confined to the idle and dissolute as was stated here, I think it is the thinking portion of the community who are opposed to Chinese immigration.

The influx of Chinese has tended to degrade the dignity of labor, and Degrades dignity its ultimate effects are precisely the same upon the white race as slavery. of labor. There is a general distrust and perturbation among the mechanical portion in relation to Chinese labor. It is held in terrorem over them by their employers that if they do not submit to their exactions as to price of labor, they will employ Chinese, and that is one reason why some of the employ- ers favor Chinese immigration.

High wages encourages provident habits and discourages dissipation. High wages en- Cheap labor means degradation of the working classes, and ultimately their courages prov- ident habits. reduction to the same standard as the Chinese.

The object of trades-unions is not so much in limiting the number of Objects of trades- operatives as to prevent employers from taking in a lot of boys, teaching unions. them but a portion of their trade, enough to make them useful for a time, and keeping them doing that kind of work, and to prevent too great com- petition in the labor.

Those who are not interested in making money out of the Chinese, of The wealthy favor the intelligent class, are generally opposed to the continued immigration Chinese immigra- in large numbers of Chinese; but I think the wealthy though are generally tion. in favor of it.

There are about 30,000 Chinese here, the majorty of them being at 30,000 Chinese in work. They are industrious people generally, but they have their idle San Francisco. class. I think they are very skilful laborers.

The Irish, German, or Italian immigrant who comes to this country, and are indolent at home, become workers here, seeing a chance to better his condition. The same state of things prevails in Canada and Australia.

As to abrogating all our treaty relations with China I do not think it is The Chinese Gov- necessary, but I would take out the clause which permitted the immigra -; ernment would have no objection tion of Chinese to this country, and I do not think there would be any ob- to excising the jection on the part of the Chinese government to that, or to abrogating clause from the immigration the whole. treaty.

My chief objection to their admission to this country is that their stand- ard of comfort is lower than that of our people. Another objection is their skill and the facility with which they take up new employments. It than that of enables them to go one after another into all the trades and occupations, reducing wages, and ultimately the effect will be to drive out our laboring new employ- population entirely. ments.

The more trade we have with China the better for us; the only mistake is in opening the doors to the Chinese population.

My opinion of the treaty is, that it amounts to nothing at all except as an excuse to tie our hands and prevent us from keeping out these China- men, and that it may be a restriction to legislative action.

The effect of the Chinese competing in the industries-such as the

Chief objection their standard of governmentlower

Americans. Rapidly take up

GEORGE

Italians, Germans, fisheries and gardening, in which Italian immigrants are engaged ; the Irish, all make better citizens than Chinese. cigar-trade, in which Germans are engaged ; and washing, in which our women in the east are engaged-is to take away that inducement which these poeple had to come here. The Italians assimilate with us and become a part and portion of our body-politic ; and so with the Irish and Germans ; they become citizens and in time American. There is a difference in that respect between Chinese and other races.

Social and political.

Chinese immigration brings with it elements of destruction to our political and social fabric, and to the extent that it is encouraged to that extent the difficulty is increased ; and to the extent that it is discouraged to that extent our own family is encouraged and protected.

Chinese cannot be incorporated in American civiliza- tion.

As a race they would not make fit citizens ; it is totally foreign to their ideas ; and it would be utterly destructive to our civilization to incor- porate them with us. They never attempt to become citizens. At the commencement of the present Congress, I think they were declaring their intention of becoming citizens.

Compared with the white race I think they are deficient in intellect and incapable of understanding our institutions, our regard for personal liberty,, dislike of arbitrary power, respect for law, and personal independence.

Character of Chinese. Intellect.

I have been told that Chinese students in our colleges are like the negroes. They learn very fast up to a certain point but beyond that point it is difficult for them to go, and they are incapable of attaining the state of civilization the Caucasian is capable of. I have the same objection to. the introduction of the negro as to the importation of the Chinese. The. number of negroes in the country is fixed, while the number of Chinese. may be increased indefinitely.

Chinese institu- tions and learning.

Their institutions are the growth of their own people and their con- dition the result of thousands of years. Their learning consists of a knowledge of the books of Confucius, Mencius, and other philosophers. The man who knows the most moral and political maxims is the best educated man. They understand the simple rules of arithmetic, and I think they all read and write. There have been some Chinese graduates in our eastern colleges.

HAIGHT.

HENRY H. HAIGHT, an old resident and formerly Governor of the State, sworn and examined :

On political and moral grounds desirable to check Chinese immigra- tion.

In my judgment, I think it is desirable to check the immigration of the- Chinese. My reasons are of a political and moral character. The Chinese are unfit to exercise the franchise. They have no conception whatever of the responsibilities attending that exercise under a republican government, and their votes would be controlled by the use of money. These would be bought and paid for beyond all question. The same reason was urged when the Africans were imported as is now urged in favor of Chinese immigration. There was a material gain to the country for a period of years by the use of that labor in the south, but it would have been very much better for us to have been without it than to have experienced the evils which resulted from it afterwards. That is one reason. The vices of paganism which the Chinese have are very difficult to be managed Larger number of under our institutions, and it is very difficult to get at these vices .in the way of correction. When I was in office, the percentage of Chinese criminals was larger than that of any other class, larger in proportion to the population than the number of white convicts. It is difficult to arrive at the truth from Chinese witnesses.

criminals among Chinese.

HAIGHT

As to the moral results, there is a vicious element that comes over from Hong Kong, and they have certain vices which it is much more difficult to prevent and punish than among the whites. To my personal know- ledge they have systematically imported prostitutes.

Vicious element

imported.

The prospect of becoming citizens, of having a voice in the govern- If Chinese ment and of enjoying liberty in that way, is an attraction to the better allowed to become class of immigrants from Europe. If Chinese were allowed to become classes would not citizens, the better citizens it would not encourage the better class to emigrate with their be attracted. families from China, as Europeans do.

There is no question whatever but that there is some blind prejudice in Strong feeling this community against color ; but the intelligent, thinking, reflecting por- tion, apart from prejudice, is altogether adverse to the increase of this chise. class, or clothing them with the elective franchise. The same prejudice existed several years ago in respect to the negro.

They are morally and intellectually incapable of understanding and appreciating the privilege of enjoying equal political rights.

against giving Chinese the fran-

The negroes of California are very respectable, decent people, and there Negroes of Cali- is no reason in the world why they should not vote, and they vote fornia more as- similable than according to their convictions, and are not bought and sold en masse. Chinese. The argument against negro suffrage a few years ago was based upon their extreme ignorance, upon their incapacity to judge intelligently of what they ought to vote for. The negro, who has lived for many genera- tions in this country has a greater adaptability to our institutions than the Chinaman. They have been in the habit of hearing these things dis- cussed, and the ideas have become engrafted in their minds.

The Chinese have added to the wealth of the state. I do not think Development of the transcontinental railway would have been built so soon but for them. wealth. Their education and habits of mind, the qualities of the race that have become fixed for generations, disqualify the present generation from becoming citizens. My impression is that they can generally read in their own language. With the exception of the vicious class, they are indus- trious and law-abiding. My impression is that the religious element is somewhat wanting in the Chinese. They take out to the graves in the cemetery provisions for the spirits of their departed ancestors, I believe, Chinese character .. once a year. I always supposed that they had no intelligent conception of the Supreme Being. I think they believe in the immortality. of the soul. They are much attached to China, but that I think is more super- stition than patriotism. They call us barbarians because our ideas of virtue and vice do not agree with theirs. They lack the quality of truth as a people ; they have very little conception of the difference between truth and falsehood. A Chinaman, when it is to his interest, would as soon state a thing one way as the other. That is the conclusion I have drawn from observation. There is a great lack of truthful- ness among native Californians. There is generally a great deal of perjury and falsehood in our courts all the time.

Until lately they were excluded from testifying in the courts, and I suppose it had the effect of increasing the number of offences against Chinese and their property.

I think I know of some who have been converted to Christianity.

Some Christians.

JOHN MELLON, farmer, sworn and examined :

Cannot be trusted unless a white man isthere Mith them. .

I prefer white labor. We pay less to the Chinese, but I think white labor is cheaper in the end. We get more work out of white men, and can put more reliance in them. I do not think there would be any diffi- culty in procuring white labor to harvest the crops. The way that har- vesting is done here now it does not require one-half the labor that it did in early days. The Chinese do not understand farming in the broad sense of the term. I cannot trust them to do anything unless a white man is ri ght there with them, you do not know when they are telling the truth. Our boys and girls are really as good as they are, if not better, in the way of picking fruit, berries, pease, etc., they being more intelligent, and can be obtained cheaper. I had a boy, from the city, about twelve or fourteen years old, and paid him twelve dollars a month during the summer. I would not give that boy for any Chinaman I ever saw, he being able to do many things that a Chinaman could not. In harvesting our crops there are more Chinese employed than whites, for the reason that white labor has been driven out of the country. Money earned by white boys and girls in picking berries, etc., stays right here and goes to the support of smaller brothers and sisters, and the support of their fathers and mothers, and I think they should have the preference. I can take one white man, and he will go into the field and bind more grain than any two Chinamen I have ever seen. It is the same with digging and picking potatoes. The Chinamen know that if they get you in a tight pinch they will squeze you very tight, and as soon as they find an opportunity to get out of the contract they will quit. They are paid sometimes $1.25, $1.40 and as high as $1.50 an acre for bind- ing. White labor about the same. There are plenty of white men who are good men, but not good hinders in the harvest field. In the plowing season they (the farmers) have to get all the white men they can to do the plowing. A Chinaman is no man with a horse ; there is not one in a hundred that you can teach to handle a team. In six months I can get all the men that the state wants on a contract of $25 a month and board. White men dislike to work alongside of Chinamen ; they think it degrading their labor ; they are not on an equal footing with the Chinese, and do not want to be classed with them.

Cheap labor has not any tendency to make our grain or potatoes cost less. The quantity or scarcity in the market rules the prices.

They are dishonest to their employers. No man will trust to a China- man to sack potatoes for market.

When white men cannot be got we do the next best thing and get the Mexicans. I would rather pay more to a white man. A white man earning $30 a month will spend that money in town in clothes, etc., whereas, whatever money a Chinaman earns, all he would purchase would be a bag of rice for six and a-half or seven cents a pound, and a pair of coarse brogans or boots, and daylight never sees the balance.

Effect on the girls There are instances where poverty has stricken a family which was once of the community. affluent, where the girls-after seeking employment in a factory, or at a laundry, or dressmaking, or millinery, and been told " I don't want you, I have got Chinamen,"-have become prostitutes and steal.

Chinese underbid white labor on farms until they obtain employment, and after the white labor has been forced away, and they have you in a tight place he will tell you : "me welly sick ; me lackee some money ; welly sick." He pretends that he cannot work. You must have your grain cured, and you have to hire somebody else, and the same Chinaman

MELLON

will bring you more Chinamen at a bigger price. When a bargain is made with a white man he will keep it.

White boys and girls consider it a degradation to sleep and eat in the Whites feel it a degradation to work or live with them.

same apartments ; and white laboring men consider the same, to be put on an equality with them.

If Chinese immigration continues for twenty years, as it has for the Political. last two years, the Chinese will be telling us to get up and leave. This is 1876, in 1976, if the immigration continues, the Chinese will be celebrat- ing the anniversary of their independence from the United States. His- tory will tell. Twenty years from now there will not be a white man seen here if they continue to come at the rate they calculate to bring them -- 5,000 or 6,000 a month.

WILLIAM VINTON, tailor, a resident of San Jose, sworn and examined : VINTON.

San José is about fifty-three miles from San Francisco, and has a popu- San José. lation of about 16,000 or 17,000. In the city there are between 1,300 and 1,400 resident Chinese usually there. Chinatown occupies about a block 1,400 Chinese. almost in the centre of the town, its average population about 1,000. In this 'one block, from information from a missionary, there are twenty-eight places of prostitution, the number of prostitutes being about 143. There are 143 prostitutes. thirty-eight gambling-dens, besides a number of opium rooms. There are also two lottery drawings daily. At Chinatown there are about 400 who never do a day's work ; they live by trading, stealing, and gambling, the Character. two latter largely predominating. Every Saturday evening is their harvest, as at that time a large number come in from Alviso to spend Sunday. Alviso employs, according to the poll-lists, some 250 to 300, and is adjacent to San José, where they spend their time and money, and Sunday, and get cleaned out. Among them there is a secret order of thieves, who have a Joss-house specially devoted to them, and they cer- tainly deserve credit for one thing, and that is, they have got the cleanest Joss-house, and the most elegantly ornamented I have ever seen.

As to their habits of cleanliness, words fail to describe it. It has to Dirt. be seen to be understood.

Their presence here prevents white immigration, and the effect of it on Effect moral and labor degrades labor to a fearful extent, closing all the avenues to the em- . social. ployment of our boys and girls and leaving our rising generation in a fearful condition, so fearful that we shrink in horror as to what must be the final result.

As to crime in San José, and from a return of the police court for six Crime. months we find that there were 167 cases against the whites-half of the crimes so charged being committed by Spaniards-and thirty cases against the Chinese.

Seven-eighths of the people believe that a change in their immigration would be beneficial to general interests.

Lotteries are forbidden by our laws. There has been one conviction Lotteries. for selling tickets. The reason there have not been more is from the un- reliability of the evidence taken-the Chinese contradicting themselves right along.

There is a special police officer in the Chinese quarter, and paid by Special policeman them. He is appointed by the sheriff. paid by the Chinese.

Efforts have been made, as I understand, to stop prostitution, but they have been unsuccessful to secure conviction.

16

VINTON

Impossible to suppress gamb- ling.

It is impossible to suppress gambling, I think, partly by collusion with the officers.

As far as drunkenness goes they are not a drunken, dissipated class. I have seen but one who could read and write the English language.

There may be 400 employed in Alviso, but the poll-book only shows 250. They are employed on strawberry farms.

MUTHER

FRANK MUTHER, cigar-maker, sworn and examined :

7,000 Chinese cigar- makers.

There are between 6,500 and 7,000 Chinese cigar-makers in San Fran- cisco. This estimate is arrived at from the revenue report, which gives taxes paid on 9,300,000 cigars a month. They will not average 100 a day, which would take 3,000 Chinamen at constant employment to make these cigars, to roll them, besides over 500 packers and strippers. The Chinamen com- plain that one-half are out of work-about 2,500. There are, perhaps, 150 white journeymen workmen here, the union numbering pretty nearly Protective I'nion. 100. The Chinese have a protective cigar-making union, one firm put- ting the membership down at 9,000. No one is admitted unless he has worked one year at the trade. Other reliable Chinamen say there are only between 5,000 and 6,000. The number on the coast is estimated by one as high as 20,000, by another at between 12,000 and 13,000. Out of the 100 white cigar-makers there are between fifty and sixty employed, their wages averaging $11 a week by piece-work, the Chinese averaging about $6, because they work by the piece and are slower workmen.

Chinese slower workmen. Cigar-makers.

The manufacturing is controlled under a good deal worse system here than east. They make far inferior preparation for the workmen here, that it gives the men no chance. If they would furnish the same accom- modation and not work the amount of men they do, it would be better. Where we consider in the east a shop fit for twenty men, they work here 100 and 150 Chinamen. As a rule, cigars are dearer here than in the east-that is, fair goods. Chinese cheap labor does not benefit the con- sumer ; but there is one class of goods that affects the retailer-very cheap, inferior goods. Such tobacco as white men throw away the China- men pick up and work up, and they put it in the market. They pick up everything -cigar-stumps, anything containing tobacco, whether it is mouldy, rotten, or anything else-that a white shop throws away.

Habits and cleanliness.

Their habits as to cleanliness in manufacturing cigars are fair where white men control them, but where they work by themselves their habits are ridiculous. One thing they particularly do is to take a cigar in their mouth and spit on it to get it smooth, and then they will take it in their hands and roll it in order to get a shine on it-what is called a Chinese polish.

Peculiar characteristics of the Chinese cigar-maker.

They were nearly all Germans who first manufactured here. In the eastern states ladies work at the business, and I have known young ladies working beside me, just after the war, throw out as much as $80 a month to my $100 ; and boys of fifteen years earn from $8 to $10 a week in the city of Chicago. The work is very easy and they do the work just as well as men. The using of spittle on cigars is peculiar to the Chinese, and not permitted in well-regulated establishments. Another thing they do : where they are crowded they take to sweating, and it was a common thing for me to see them, when compelled through poverty to work in the same room with them, take the cuttings and wipe their arms and their faces

MUTHRE

with them, and blow their noses into them. That is very common among them.

The Chinese offer bribes to obtain employment. They will first go to the boss who is working white men and offer him wages below what a Chinaman will work actually on in the long run. If necessary, they will .screw those wages down to almost nothing in order to obtain the shop. When they cannot prevail on the boss they will turn around and try to Will pay to get bribe the foreman. They have offered $10 for every Chinaman they will cnployment. put on, or $10 for every 1,000 cigars manufactured. I know one foreman who will swear that, in the last few weeks, he was offered $1 for every 1,000 cigars manufactured in the shop by Chinamen or $10 for every Chinaman he would put on. When they offer a man $80 and $100 a week it is hard to hold honest men under such inducements.

The cigar-makers' union have no such law limiting the number of ap- Cigar-makers prentices. We have ladies working at the business in the city who belong apprentices. union and to the society, and we would accept a child two years of age, provided he could keep shop and make cigars. If a boy wanted to learn the trade in all its branches he would have to serve three years, and when the time is up he is paid little wages and has to go to another trade on account of the 'Chinese who have got the trade. They have got us, so to say, conquered. No conscientious man in this city will take an apprentice, as a general man will take a rule. If the Chinese cigar-makers were excluded from the state there would not be sufficient white labor here now because they have all been driven away ; but New York reports 3,000 cigar-makers walking the driven away. streets doing nothing.

No conscientious:

white apprentice to the cigar busi- ness. White labor

When I came out here first from Chicago I had as many as 100 men Cigar-making no writing me who wanted to come out, one-quarter of them with families, larger or good a I then had a pretty good situation, but it has dwindled down so that I cannot make within $8 a week of what I did two years ago. The nation- ality of the white cigar-makers here is about one-half American, the other half being Germans and Jews.

With respect to the Gilroy Company endeavoring to get white labor, Cigars made by and that they could only get two white bummers, that is a lie, because Chinese adver- tised as manu- whites. when that factory started they limited the room to twelve white tables. factured by After repeated applications to the foreman for work, he overstepped the limit and put on four more white tables. The boys went to the foreman .and offered to send east for white men, but he would not acknowledge that they would give them work if they came. On further persuasion he overstepped the limit and made the white tables eighteen, but that was only to enable the men to get a little money to leave the town. There were over 150 white men in the shop at the time, and the cigars manu- factured by the Chinese were put on the market and sold as the produc- tion of white labor. This firm claimed to work 2,000 Chinese.

Hardly a day passes but white men come into shops here from the east, White men come notwithstanding all the discouraging letters that are written and pub- and cannot find lished, telling them not to come. They are driven away, not being able employment. to find employment. The field is better east than here.

There is a shop composed of four parties. One of the firm has gone Wives can be back to China. He had a couple of wives there, and he said he was going bought in Chi to bring a few more along; that he could buy them there for $60, and sell for $500 in. Califor- for $60 and sold them here for $500. Another partner said, he had a shop to work exclu- nia. sively apprentices, but could not say what he paid them. He gave them their board.

Chinamen, when pinched, will take contracts below the actual cost of How the whole- the goods-that is, certain companies-from the wholesale tobacco houses. the cigar business. sale houses work

trade as formerly.

The monopoly of this town is the wholesale business. They contract to furnish all the cigars, such brands and such brands. They have to give good quality ; everything that is not good they have the right to refuse. The contract will absolutely say that they have to purchase the tobacco from the wholesale house, and in this way the tobacco houses have the monopoly. They have got the Chinamen, and they have got the public. They invariably beat the Chinamen on the tobacco, and get the goods they contract for ; and all the poorer trash the little white shops have to work up. Tak, Lang & Co., take a very cheap contract ; they have 400 boarders, besides apprentices. This firm say they can collect $400 to $480 a week from all their boarders, and that they do not care if they do not make anything on cigars. If they can get contracts they will take them rather than lose their boarders.

I think there are trade organizations among them, because the China- men that I have worked with all tell the same story : that they are com- pelled to do as the Six Companies, or any company that they may live under, wants them to do. But when they do not come under that head, and do not obey the orders of the head of a company, they simply condemn them and consider them outcasts; and any Chinaman who will stone them, and kill them after that, will get credit from the Six Companies. If necessary, they will hire lawyers to defend him, and produce evidence to clear him.

The firms which put up signs "No Chinese labor employed here," embrace Jews, Americans, and Germans, and in those establishments, in- variably, no Chinese labor is employed.

The cigar-makers society is an incorporated society and its members only work where white labor is employed, and where they work they have a certain stamp that they put on their cigar as white labor. We have legitimately a right to stick out this brand . " No Chinese labor employed here." There is a white man appointed in the shop to keep a book of every cigar manufactured, and if you want these stamps you can get the amount you are entitled to and no more. These are copyrighted, and we did that because so many men were swearing that they worked only white men when they were working Chinese. The advertising dodge is to call for twenty white men. If the white men go to the shop they will put them on. They will then advertise all through the country that they have been working white men, and are deserving of preference in the trade ; but as soon as they get this thing established, by the next Saturday Chinamen are there. Denicke Brothers is the firm I have reference to.

The cigars made by the Chinese are eventually consumed by human beings, a great many being sent east-the common trash.

The stamp is on the box and similar to a revenue stamp, only a little broader, and on the box it says: "The cigars contained in this box are made by white men."

There are two classes of stores that put out the sign: one true and the. other not. Where it is a true store he has bad goods if he has Chinese goods, and if he has them he cannot present them as the result of white labor,

Cigars are made in Havana by Chinese ; from what I have heard, about .one-half.

WINN

ALBERT M. WINN, a resident of the state for twenty-eight years, president of the Mechanics' State Council, sworn and examined :

Chinese immigration and cheap labor presents to our consideration a The rich want complicated question of political economy. It has two sides. Most of cheap labor ; the poor cannot

the rich want cheap labor to carry on their shops and farms to the compete with it. best advantage for an increase of profit; the poor cannot afford to .compete with labor so far below the American standard of industry, which creates a conflict of opinion between rich and poor. The question is no longer treated from an individual stand-point ; it is national in its charac- ter ; the nation's representatives have treated it in that way. [The witness here read a lengthy document on the subject of Chinese immigration and its effects upon white labor.]

The effect of Chinese labor is to throw our white working classes out of Chinese keep out employment ; it degrades labor. If the Chinese were not here I think white labor. white labor would flock to this coast ; their presence prevents immigration of the white laboring classes. When men in the east, interested in labor organizations, write me concerning the chance of getting employment here, I write to them to stay away ; that the Chinese have filled all the places here that they would be likely to get. These communications are Men of family very common. When a man of family comes here he can only get Chinese can only get Chinese wages. wages, and he cannot support his family. A Chinaman has no family to support, and they can live upon a very small amount a day.

Chinese labor here is not much more than half the same kind of labor is in the east-the wages of those Chinamen who come here green.

· I do not think the Chinese are a benefit in any shape. I think that they are injurious to the country. They benefit a few wealthy men, men of large farms and large factories, but they injure the poor man who must necessarily support the government. The grain raised by the Chinese and the grain raised by the white men must both sell for the same price ; the market governs the price, the same with vegetables.

They do not live like white men ; they can live on ten cents a day, and Low standard of they do not want more than two feet by six to lay down in. One hundred of them will occupy the room of a family of five or six. There is no com- parison between the two as to their living.

The substance of the petition sent to Congress, and signed by 26,000 Character of op -- people, was to request the abrogation of the treaty with China with a view to prevent the immigration of Chinese, and to ascertain the opinion of the people who were supposed to be interested in Chinese immigration. The signatures to the petition in the financial and commercial centre of the city averaged eighty per cent. The opposition to Chinese immigration is not confined to the low and dissolute classes. The payment of the money for the printing and sending men around with the petitions, was nearly all subscribed by business men, the laboring men paying about $25 out of $300.

I believe the ministers, generally, are in favor of bringing them here. I Chinese in Cali- do not think there are any Chinese Christianized at all. The information I get is that Chinese attend Sunday schools, go to church, and learn the English language, and get the advantage of it in trade. Very few go compared with their whole number.

comfort. -

position to Chi- nese immigration.

fornia not Chris- tianized.

ERNEST C. STOCK, police reporter for the Morning Call for ten years, and French and German interpreter for the courts, sworn and examined :

The Chinese have no regard for their sick or dead. [Here the witness cited the details of several cases of a horrible nature.}

On several occasions I have taken parties around through Chinatown. On one occasion I took Mr. Hepworth Dixon, the lecturer and traveller. I showed him, as I thought, some of the filthiest places he had ever seen. He said he thought they were. Finally I took him into Cooper alley. There I showed him a place, a second basement, a little room about eight feet square and about six feet high, with two men sleeping in it. He said : "Is it possible anybody lives here ?" I told him, "Yes ; " and I went in and pulled up the curtain in front of the bunk and showed him the two men asleep. When we placed our feet on the floor the boards sunk down and slime oozed up through the cracks. He remarked at the time that he had been in the Seven Dials of London, the slums of the eastern cities, the sink-holes of Calcutta, the Five Points of New York, and other places of that character, and in all his travels he had never seen anything so filthy as that place.

It is a practice among a certain class of Chinese every morning and evening to go into the courtyard around their houses, or in the courtyard adjoining their houses, and build a fire of paper in little tin boxes, say two or three inches square. They take off their underclothes and turn them inside out, and then pass them over the flames for the purpose of killing the vermin. They burn them just as a housewife would singe a chicken.

Parties are turned out to die in Chinatown. Such things as that I have never known white people to do. I have never known white people in this city to take one of their own kind and put him out on the side- walk because he was dying.

There was one case of a man dying in squallidness. The man had been missing for twenty days. He was a man without friends, who kept to himself all the time- an old hermit. They burst open the door and found him lying on the floor.

The humanity that prompts the white race to look after their own is not characteristic of the Chinese. There is nothing like the heartlessness of this class of people. A law was passed by our Legislature prohibiting the exposure of dead bodies, and this was forced upon them by the action of the Chinese. I know instances where the coroner has been summoned to hold an inquest on a living woman ; also of an instance of a Chinaman going for a coffin to put his child in, the child living sixteen hours after its arrival.

Chinatown is visited more and observed more by foreigners than any other part of the city ; and whatever is bad is more apt to be seen there than any other part of the city. At times hoodlums pass through China- town and abuse the Chinese. It is not a common resort for them at night. Hoodlums would rather catch a Chinaman where he is all alone, and where there are no officers around.

I have visited the Barbary Coast, Tar Flat, Ragtown, Appletown, and all those places.

The authorities have instructed them as to sanitary measures, as, for instance, to report all small-pox cases, and to report cases to the coroner. It is generally understood among them that when there are any sick people the authorities will take care of them. They gain this knowledge by instructing themselves upon the laws. The authorities publish the laws and let the people find out for themselves.

BUCHANAN

WILLIAM G. BUCHANAN, shoe-maker, a resident of twenty years, sworn and examined :

There are between 2,000 and 2,500 Chinese shoe-makers in the city and about 1,000 whites, one-third women and boys.

The manufacturers started originally with white labor. The average Manufacture wages of a shoe-maker five years ago was about $4 a day-$25 a week ; originally with now the average is about $16.50 to $18. I do not find any difficulty in white labor. getting all the white labor I require. I have applications every day. The ·cost of making the labor part with Chinese is near about the same here as it is in the eastern states by whites, if any difference it is in favor of the whites. In Einstein's shop here, where they used to employ 300 Chinese Cost of making and now employ white, the cost of making shoes with white labor now is about the same as it was with Chinese formerly. The shoes manufactured labor as with by white men go into the market at the same price as they did before Chinese. they were made by Chinese.

There is a white man's cooperative shoe-makers' establisment here, paying interest on investment a good deal more than banking rates, last year paying twenty-four per cent.

Chinese competition has kept back immigration considerably, and I White immigra- know of any amount of cases where they had to leave the shops and their tion kept back. places were filled with Chinamen.

The reason for employing white labor is that they turn out more work White labor turns at the same rate than the Chinese. A Chinaman will make eighteen what Chinese will. out more than 2} pairs of shoes in a day, for which he receives $1 ; a white man will make forty-eight pairs in the same time, for which he gets $2.88.

White labor is being crowded out on account of Chinese starting factories for themselves, and competing with other firms at less profit. They will work longer hours and do more for themselves than they will for other manufacturers ; and their threatening to manufacture for themselves has had the effect of forcing manufacturers to employ them.

The cause of the reduction of wages a few years ago was a surplus of Effect on labor. help, both white and Chinese. The employers having Chinese to fall back upon for help, has a tendency to force the white men to accept the prices that they see fit to give them.

At present white men work in the same shop with Chinamen, but there was a time when you could not get a white man to go in with them. It is compulsion to get one to work on the same floor with them.

Chinese competition against employers has a tendency to reduce the Chinese labor profits of the manufacturers. There are three-fourths of the Chinamen making shoes here, selling their own shoes, which supplies the market to a ·considerable extent and excludes so far the white employees.

There is no protective union or association among shoe-makers here. If the Chinese did not come into competition, the whites could make their prices, but they would have to be moderate. I do not suppose that the ·employers would submit very gracefully to an advance of wages. The feeling among mechanics that the Chinese stand in their way arises more from men being out of work, and not in the way of the labor-union dic- tating to bosses.

The cooperative union are both workmen and bosses ; it is the sale Cooperative that regulates the work not the number of workmen. If the market is union. overstocked there must be less employment for the white workmen.

Customers from the interior districts go where they can buy the cheapest whether made by Chinese or not. The cost of living to a laboring man or mechanic, I should judge, would be in favor of the east rather than here.

injurious to white employees.

of shoes started

shoes about th same with white

HAYES

MISS MAGGIE HAYES, assistant forewoman at Einstein's shoe factory, sworn and examined :

Labor of girls more valuable than that of Chinese.

There are twenty-three girls employed at present in the fitting depart- inent. The work is done by piece-work. Chinamen are paid by the day ; they get $1 ; the girls on piece-work make from $1.50 to $2 a day. The com- parative value of the labor is in favor of the girls in the proportion of four dozen and a half to four dozen.

not offensive to girls.

In the city there are about 250 girls employed at shoe-fitting. There would be no difficulty in getting girls. We have to work for a living, and if we have to work alongside of a Chinaman, we might as well do it and say nothing. I have known of girls being driven out of employment by the Chinese. Chinese working in the same room never say anything Chinese workmen to the girls. They work all the time. They do not behave badly, nor are - they offensive in their manners. They talk to each other once in a while, and work very steadily. They work from seven o'clock till a quarter to six. The girls work from half-past seven till half-past five o'clock. In other parts of the establishment those working by the week work from seven till a quarter to six, those by piece can go at any time they like. The Chinamen work longer because they work by the week. The girls get from $7 to $10, and so on according to their worth, and the Chinamen get $1 a day. The Chinamen do very good work but they are slow ; some, of course, do bad, the same as girls, and some good. A new hand does not do as good work as an old hand. Girls work in other factories where Chinese are employed.

Chinamen slow.

Girls could be substituted for Chinese.

The establishment of Chinese shoe-factories here for years past, has had a tendency to give employment to girls. There were a great many more girls employed in this department five years ago than there are now, and a girl could make good wages then to what she can now. Girls could be substituted in this department for the Chinese.

LANCASTER. CHARLES S. LANCASTER, engaged in the shoe business nineteen years,. sworn and examined :

Shoe-makers migrating eastward rather than westward.

I have been about six months in this city. The last place I was in was. Ogden, Utah, where I worked one year : six months as foreman of a firm and six in business for myself. During that time we had not a single application for work coming from the west, and we had quite a number going east. Last winter there were half a dozen or more applied to me personally for work coming from this city, showing that the emigration of shoe-makers was going east rather than coming west.

The following is a comparative statement of prices at the present time with those existing five years ago :-

Prices now (1876) and in 1871.

The prices known as ladies' French kitt button boots, we are making now for $9, for bottoming them, making the shoe per dozen ; and formerly it was $12. Women's kid balmorals are now $8.50, and it was $10.50. Gentlemen's Oxford ties, $8.50, it was $10.50. Neilson ties, $8.50, it was $10.50. Ladies' 3x cloth, fox-kid buttoned boots, $7.50, it was $9. 1x quality, $5.50, it was $9. 1x balmorals, $5.50, it was $8. Imitation sewed, $10, it was $18. Misses' French kid, 3x, $7.50, it was $9. Misses' Neilson ties, $7, it was $9 five years ago. Those are the prices that were paid and are now being paid at Buckingham & Hecht's. Porter's shop : morocco, leg calf-boot imitation stitch, $14, it was $28. French calf-top-

LANCASTER

sole plain, leg boot, $11, it was $23. Second quality calf, $7.10, it was about $15.

There is no difficulty in getting all the help wanted at these prices. White labor can compete with Chinese at the same rate. If the Chinese formed combinations among themselves it would have a tendency to drive us out of employment and force the masters to employ them.

The Chinese have factories. I believe it is the general custom with Chinese when them, when they are discharged, to club their means together and start in on a small scale for themselves, and by that means they can undersell the cooperative manufacturers here. They can sell for less profit. principle.

discharged start factories on the

The wages of all kinds of mechanics have suffered a reduction all over the country during the last five years-the shoe-makers at least twenty per cent.

Mrs. HENRY J. HUMPHREYS, widow, sworn and examined : HUMPHREYS.

My occupation is anything that I can get to do scrubbing, or washing, Competition of or anything. At present I sew for a living because I cannot get anything Chinese with women. else very well, unless I go out and work. I have my boy to attend to and bring up, so I am obliged to do almost anything I can get to do at home. I manufacture ladies' underwear, which is affected by Chinese labor more so than any other branch of business here, mostly all being employed in manufacturing it. We get probably a dollar and a half on the dozen, a little more than the Chinamen, but we have to pay rent and take care of our families. They prefer white labor when they can get it at Chinamen's prices, but not at any more. Within the last six months they have started little manufacturing places of their own ; they do not sell them any cheaper than the white stores, but still the people imagine they can get it a little better or a little cheaper from them. There is no difficulty in getting white women to do this sewing ; by advertising you will get them by thousands. A firm on the corner of 18th street advertised for 200 sewing-machine operatives. I applied at a quarter past eight the morning it appeared I was told by the man engaging that he had already hired the 200, and had more than that apply. My branch of business is the worst imposed on business in the city. Women are willing to earn their living if they can get work. I have a bundle of work here-twelve night-gowns-which took me four days to make, from eight in the morning until ten at night, for which I am to receive $3 for five days' work at ordinary working hours.

FRITZ STEIN, of the reportorial staff of the California Democrat (German STEIN. paper), sworn and examined .

They have no regard for human life, no heart at all. [The witness here Inhumanity. related a story of a shipwreck, he being a passenger on board, illustrating the inhumanity of the Chinese to the survivors, robbing them of their clothes and everything, leaving them on an island naked, as well as robbing at least forty Chinamen who could not get off in the boats, but stuck by the bowsprit which was out of water. They robbed them of their clothes and put them into the water alive to drown, when they might have saved them.]

JOHN D. CONDON, cabinet-maker, sworn and examined :

The Chinese do not directly affect cabinet-making proper. The sash, door, and blind department is pretty nearly exclusively in their hands, they also doing nearly all the common varnishing. White labor can be used profitably in this industry. As a general thing there are a few white foremen in the shops where Chinese are employed. The best work- men could not make a living at the wages paid Chinamen, the latter's wages averaging $1 or $1.10 a day. As a general thing they work by the piece all the time.

There is a sufficiency of white labor to carry on this industry. As an instance, a firm advertised for two white boys in the painting work. There were over 100 applications for work within three days. I saw upwards of thirty boys there at a quarter to seven in the morning-a very good class of boys.

The present wages of the white mechanic is about $15 a week, judging from myself. The whites are much ahead of the Chinese in speed, invariably doing as much as two of them.

While in the state's prison acting as foreman for Cole & Co., over Chi- nese convicts, I have seen them lying under the bench for an hour, after opium-smoking ; and after they had recovered they would be so stupid they were not worth anything for an hour afterwards. There were three of us foremen there. A foreman having more or less Chinamen working for him, as a general thing does not treat them as he would a lot of white men. He becomes arbitrary. When they discharge the Chinamen and employ white boys, they carry out the same system of tyranny to the boys as to the Chinamen. The boys feel as though they were not treated as they should be, and consequently there is a rupture and they are dis- charged. Being foreman over Chinese has the same effect upon him as upon the white overseer that slavery had upon the slave-driver.

There is no provision in the various constitutions of the trade societies in the city or state that prohibits boys from becoming apprentices. I have known instances where the number has been limited to so many journeymen. One of the objects of trades-unions is to encourage and to defend their fellow-craftsmen in trying to hold the prices of labor.

The effect of Chinese competition on our trade has been to create an immense overplus of labor here. There are at present from 10,000 to 12,000 white men out of employment, representing nearly all branches of industry, which is attributed to a great extent to the presence of the Chinese. There are a great many men out of employment all through the east as well as all through Europe. There is a general depression.

There has been a considerable falling off in the immigration to this state from the east, those who can get means to take them back going back every day. Further on the witness said, if correctly reported, that there was an excess of immigrants over emigrants.

The Chinese do not use any furniture made by cabinet-makers, with the exception of little stool-benches. Probably the merchants use a little. A hundred Chinamen would not use as much cabinet furniture as a family of six American mechanics. In consequence of Chinese labor, sashes, doors and blinds which used to come from the east are now made in the state.

I do not think that Chinese cheap labor has any tendency to lower the scale of prices to the consumers It would be better for eastern manu- facturers to have the work than to have Chinamen here do it.

There are several thousands more mechanics here now than there were ten years ago. The development of industries here brought them.

MARSHALL

LEVIN MARSHALL, tailor, a long resident of the state, sworn and ex- amined :

I have followed my occupation here since 1862. There are at least Now (1876) one 1,000 Chinese in the custom (ordering clothes by measurement) and in custom and dozen white men manufacturing, and not quite a dozen white men. Before the Chinese manufacturing came there were one hundred. The effect of the competition has been Chinese came 100. that they all had to give it up. Last year I had about twenty girls and tive men working for me, and now I have nothing to do myself. I used to get $9 a dozen for boys' pants, now I make them for $5.50 ; for men's wages. Effect on white I used to get $15, and now I get $6.50 to $7.50. Tailors used to make from $15 to $20 a week, after paying off all the hands and the rent. The Chinese make about $7.50 a week. The clothes manufactured by them The public

are not any cheaper to the public. The manufacturers are making the money ; it is no saving to the public. Girls that used to get from $8 to $10 and $12 a week work now for $5. You cannot get any at that price ; the Chinese have driven the girls out of the trade altogether. I used to get for boys' jackets $12 a dozen ; they are making them for five bits apiece-$7.50 a dozen. For men's coats we used to get $1.50 and $2.50, and some $3 ; now they pay $1.25, and $1.50 for double-breasted coats by the dozen, the same by the piece. For pantaloons, boys', $3.50 ; men's, $5.50 to $6.50-Chinese labor. The whites make men's pants for $9, when they used to get $15 for them.

Manufacturing commenced here, in 1865, with white labor-all white. There are about five white firms here who manufacture clothing, employ- ing altogether between thirty and forty tailors, the rest is all manufactured by Chinese-pants, coats, overcoats and blanket coats. There are but a few tailors in the city that manufacture fine clothing, such as the Chinese do not make, probably forty ; all custom work. Each of them has a Custom work tailor, and they give out their custom work to whites. There are now given to whites. about twenty women engaged in tailoring, there were plenty in 1865. Clothing is made with Chinese labor cheaper here than in the east. One man would make about three pairs of pants a day-the same as a white man. Nobody makes pants and vests now except the Chinese. Before we commenced manufacturing cloth here it was all imported.

The tailors have no trades-union.

ERRIC WESTINE, tailor, sworn and examined :

WESTINE.

I have been tailoring in the city for over five years. There are not many Chinese in the custom trade, they are mostly engaged in manufac- turing. At a rough estimate I should think there are between a dozen and fifteen Chinese merchant (?) tailors in the city.

Chinese competition shuts off the immigration of tailors and keeps a good many away, besides driving many away that we had here. In the custom trade, five years ago, the Chinese were employed more than they are now, because the employers are getting tired of them. They have tried them, and I do not think they can make good use of them in that branch of business. The manufacture of clothing can be carried on profitably by white labor on this coast. I do not think that the clothing manufactured by the Chinese costs any less than that manufactured by Chinese do not white labor. If there were no Chinese on this coast there would be plenty give cheaper clothing to the public. of labor to carry on the manufacture of clothing, etc.

trade ; before the

no gainers.

WESTINE

Manufacturing was established five years ago, but not to the extent that it is to-day. The city is growing and so is manufacturing, all the time. There are between 300 and 400 white tailors engaged on custom work in first-class tailoring establishments. Manufactured clothing came from the east before we commenced work here.

Tailors mostly work by the piece, and the wages average from $15 to $20 a week if they have work. The prices in New York are reduced about the same as here.

GILLESPIE.

ROBERT H. GILLESPIE, broom-maker, sworn and examined :

Between Chinese and white labor very little difference.

Price of brooms not any less.

There are about forty-five engaged in the business in the city and about the same number outside of it. Between Chinese and white labor at the present time there is very little difference-not a quarter of a dollar on a hundred brooms. Before Chinese competition, white labor was paid for by the piece. A man could make from $15 to $25 and $26 a week. Very few can make $15 now. The Chinese made as high as $14 some two years ago ; when some of the factories first employed them by the piece. The price of brooms to the public with Chinese labor is not any less than it was with white labor. It is an occupation that furnishes employment to women and boys, and the employment of Chinese has a tendency to drive out these girls from the broom factories. The Chinese on the Pacific coast, as far as I can find out, use about seventy-five dozen brooms a year ; and, as far as I figure it, there are one dozen brooms used to between fifteen and sixteen whites in one year on the coast-men, women and children. There are about 70,000 dozen brooms manufactured and sold on the coast.

In 1865, I think it was, the broom factory on Drumm street was the first one that employed Chinamen, and it has been going on ever since in every factory, with one exception-that is, the factory on Sacra- mento street, where they have got all whites. Most of those places that have got Chinese have only got whites enough to watch the Chinese keep Chinese from and keep them from stealing and over-counting on their work, and that Whites kept to stealing, etc. they expect them to do for nothing over what they pay them by the piece .. In 1865 manufacturers were making more money then than what they are now, although broom-corn was higher. At the present time brooms Effect on wages. are at a pretty good figure, and broom-corn is very cheap. The reasons. that I give for it are that the middlemen and the wholesale dealers are the parties who make the profit ; and therefore compel the manufacturers to grind the labor down. Labor is cheaper, broom-corn is cheaper, and brooms are higher now than in 1864-65. The supply and demand of brooms does not regulate the price, all the surplus stock being shipped to foreign ports. It has only been within the last six or seven years that we have been shipping any brooms. We used to consume all we made here.

Broom-corn is raised here. Before the manufacture was commenced we had to get our supply from the east. We ship about 12,000 dozen a. year to the Australian ports, competing with the English colonies.

White workmen more. There are some Chinamen who make as high as $10 a week now. Some make one quarter kinds of broom they can make 600 a week, other kinds only 300. Of the kind that the Chinese make 300, a white man would make about 400 ; and of the others a white man would make about 800 to the Chinaman's 600.

Six years ago the wages were higher east than here at that time.

GILLESPIE

Besides shipping to Australia we ship to Callao, the Sandwich Islands, New Zealand, and Chili-about 20,000 dozen being shipped from here to foreign ports every year, leaving 50,000 dozen to be consumed here.

Manufacturing would have been gone into if the Chinese had not been Manufacturing of here just as largely as it is now, and more so. Not one of the firms that commenced with white labor failed ; but one or two have failed with Chinese labor.

brooms would have been gone into as largely if the Chinese not here.

EDWARD L. CORTAGE, workingman in a broom factory :

CORTAGE.

There are somewhere between ninety and one hundred Chinese em- Broom-making. ployed on the coast in broom-making. The industry can be carried on without the use of Chinese labor, because, in 1869, it was carried on without them to the same extent as now. The broom-makers who were formerly here are scattered to the four winds of the world, some in Australia, some in South America, and some in eastern states. The prices paid in St. Louis are exactly the same paid here now ; there might be a quarter of a cent on some kind ofwork more or a ·quarter of a cent on another kind less, but it is about the same thing. For New York and Chicago, I can say nothing. We have a foreign market, shipping about 20,0,00 dozen.

The lower wages of the Chinese operate to reduce my wages, and I cannot very well live upon the wages they receive. Ten dollars a week for a family, wife and four children, is hardly sufficient to live on. Rents Cannot support a for white men are seldom less than $15 a month unless be moves in the on Chinese wages. wife and family fourth story of a tenement, and then it will cost $12 a month, and all live together. We could not afford to live like Chinamen, because they are single and can live on nineteen cents a day, at the same rate that our prisoners live in gaol. If I were single, I could live on $4 or $5 a week by putting it down to the lowest possible figure.

Most of the sober, laboring, industrious mechanics here have homes of their own. It has been stated here that none but the vagrant and dirty class come to testify against the Chinese ; on my part this is not true.

Intelligent mechanics, honest, sober, workingmen, are terribly opposed to anybody that causes them to struggle for a living.

I am a German and in conversation with my countrymen they all Chinese immi- think Chinese immigration an evil, if not at present, in future.

The very man who engaged the Chinese first was so far reduced that he wanted to earn a little, and he was the first man to try to create a row by getting others to go in to raise the wages.

There was a Chinaman arrested for stealing at Mr. Cummings' establish- ment. A Chinaman had a row with him about some settlement, and in turning him out the Chinaman lost his balance, and he saw the top of a whisk-broom, tipped with velvet, under his coat, and Mr. Cummings pulled it out. He had him arrested for stealing, but whether he was convicted or not I do not know.

gration an evil.

DENNIS MCCARTHY, boot-maker, sworn and examined : MCCARTHY.

The trade can be carried on profitably with white labor. There are Boot-making can

be carried on profitably with

between 2,000 and 3,000 Chinese in the city employed at the business. I am connected with the United Workingmen's Cooperative Association, white labor.

employing altogether white labor, and almost entirely confined to the manufacture of men's boots. That line the Chinese have not got into as yet, but in ladies' work, misses' work and children's work they have almost the entire control. The slipper business they have altogether. One year we employed fifteen Chinamen to make that class of work- cheap shoes. After that year white, men applied for that line of work saying they would make them as cheap as the Chinamen so as to get employment. We discharged the few Chinamen we had, and now employ white labor- between sixty and seventy.

I think a white man will do about one-fourth more work than a China- man ; the latter will make about thirty pairs and the former about forty pairs of these misses' and children's shoes.

Some five or six years ago there were no Chinamen employed at all in this business, there being in the neighborhood of 800 men here then ; but the manufacturers considered that there was more money by employing Chinamen so they gradually introduced them, and I think to-day only about 400 to 500 white men are employed ; whereas if the Chinese were not in that business we would have, I think, about 2,000 white men in that line of business here now. When I came here 100 men would cover the number of white men employed in factories, which were then in their infancy ; there are between 400 and 500 now in the manufacturing. The custom trade is not affected by Chinese labor.

The return on the capital invested in the cooperative association would be on an average fifteen per cent. The reason for this large profit is that the Chinese are not yet engaged in the manufacture of men's boots. We could not manufacture the other class and pay cost at Chinese rates.

The wages of shoe-makers east varies a great deal ; it depends upon the season a good deal. In the hurried season their wages run up ; at other seasons the wages are dull. Prices fluctuate there. I think the eastern prices are higher than here.

MICHAEL HAYES, a resident of California for twenty-five years, sworn and examined :

I have visited the mines on many occasions, but I have never worked in them. I think permitting the Chinese to work the placer-mines is a great injury to California and a great injury to the United States ; it reduces the quantity that finds its way into the banks of the United States. The Chinese control nearly all the placer-diggings. They have worked from year to year at those abandoned claims. They have taken the gold out ; and it is the impression of most people that they carry it to China, or send it to China through the Six Companies.

If they were permitted to become citizens it would have no effect on their desire to reside in the country, because a Chinaman will return to China.

FRANK M. PIXLEY, sworn and examined :

About ten or eleven years ago, my brother, a poor man and a mechanic, and a man of family, engaged in the manufacture of broom-handles, em- ploying six white workmen, whose wages ranged from three dollars and fifty cents to four dollars a day, according to their skill in running

PIXLEY

turning lathes. Shortly after he started some one else established a broom-factory, employing four or five Chinese to work it. In a very short time these Chinese became so expert in the manufacture that they Instance of lower- established the trade themselves, with one white man as foreman. They fort of Chinese, standard of com- were required to keep a horse and waggon to dispose of their wares. This thrusting whites horse was kept in a stable ; the Chinese lived in the same stable with the ment. out of employ- horse, fed and cooked for themselves in an upper loft, and slept there, and so reduced the wages that much, thrusting, in this particular intance, my brother out of employment. This is a single incident, tending to show that no white person with a family can compete with Chinese.

If no Chinese had come to California it is my judgment that our trades and manufactures would have grown a little slower than they have ; that some people would have made less money than they have. But they would have grown, and to the present extent, with white labor, and just as much money would have been made, which would have been distributed among the laboring or workingmen more than it is now. To remove all the Chinese workers from their various industries would create a tem- Wisest to send porary embarrassment, but we should soon fill their places with them all away. intelligent European and American laborers. I think it would be the wisest thing that could be done to send them all away. The Chinese Would not, how -. problem would solve itself in process of time. I do not advocate the Chinese here. ever, exclude the. exclusion of the Chinese who are here. I think they are here under the guarantee of law and treaty, and I would give them the fullest protection.

If Chinese had not come to California trades and manu- factures would havegrown slower but would have grown. Money would have been more distributed.

I never saw women harnessed with dogs to carts in Europe; but I have seen women in Belgium and Germany attending dogs attached to small carts, and they will assist in pushing the cart over difficult points. I do not know of any part of Europe where a husband will not speak to his wife on the street, and where she is not allowed to mention his name and address. In Ireland they have their cabins of the poor, they have their pigs and their poultry, and they live very poorly in some places, but I would not have any objection to receiving them as immigrants because they have been compelled to live more meanly in that country than they can live here. The European immigrant, however poor he may be, immediately on his arrival here takes a position in society, so far as comforts and home are concerned, and educates his children, and clothes them up to the fullest possibility of his earnings ; the second genera- tion is an improvement, and the third generation is American. We are all immigrants for that matter, or our ancestors were.

The outrages against the Chinese are grossly exaggerated. In reference to this question of the persecution of the Chinese I am only surprised very forbearing. that there is not more of it. I think our laboring people are a long- suffering and forbearing people. Our city has been as near to a disgrace- ful and bloody riot as it could possibly be, but it was avoided by people who have not had the credit of saving the town from such a scandal. Mr. A. M. Winn was one of them. There were men, leading men, in this anti-Chinese movement who could have stirred up a riot, who, by the lifting of their thumbs, could have cleaned the Chinese quarter out. The people who were going to create this riot were driven to starvation and poverty, with their wives and children, deprived of employment by the influx of Chinese immigration, men to whom this question comes to the breakfast and dinner table, to whom it is the question of bread.

The Chinese are patient, industrious, hard-working slaves, respecting Chinese, patient, industrious, hard- working slaves, socially. our laws through fear, and being compelled to labor for their own sup- port. Socially they are inferior to any race God has ever made, in my opinion. I think it would be infinitely worse to have Chinese instead of Socially inferiorto negroes down south. any race on earth,

Thinks the white laboring classes

White people deprived of bread.

Did not "discrimi- nate " between classes of China- men.

I do not discriminate between these Chinamen. Their organic construc- tion is the same from the highest mandarin to the lowest prostitute ; they have the same religion and they have the same habits. If by some judicious tribunal we could bring the very best and better class of Chinese to this country under the treaty, men who come for business, who come for pleasure, who come for the higher pursuits of commerce, I would have the door open to them.

There are 400,000,000 or 500,000,000 Chinese. They are separated from our coast by a narrow and a very mild sea. They can come here for $12 a piece. To throw open our continent and its broad area, all its mineral wealth, its agricultural resources, and its mechanical employments, to the importation of this people, is simply to invite upon us the barbaric scourge that once visited Europe.

There are Chinese merchants, but no bankers that I know of. I think it would be good policy on the part of the government to discourage them, not to restrict them.

Should be discouraged, not restricted. The criminal There are parts of Africa where the standard of intelligence is lower than that of the Chinese, but the standard of morals is better ; that is, they are honest. These people have got the perfection of the crimes of perfection of 4,000 4,000 years, of a civilization that has grown out of a redundant popula- years. The civilization of tion. As, for instance, why do we treasure our girls, and why do they a redundant popu- murder theirs ? Because they have so many they cannot feed them. Why lation ; filiacide ; prostitution. do our parents die for their children, while they sell theirs for whores ? I think it is the necessity and poverty of the lower class that compels the woman to sell her child.

Chinese civiliza- They have a civilization of a kind at home. They have arts, sciences, tion and learning. and all that. They have a literature, the teachings of Confucius and Mencius.

The Chinese religion, if I understand it, is pure fatalism ; the African religion is worse, fetish, if they have any at all.

I think the contact of 40,000,000 of our civilization with 400,000,000 of the Chinese civilization would improve them. I think it would reduce ours to their level and not elevate ours, but theirs, that is the danger. American civiliza- Our civilization has accomplished great results, but it cannot accomplish the Christianization or civilization of China, they having ingrained in them prejudices the growth of 4,000 years.

Respecting the outrages committed upon them. In the great meeting of the 5th of April, if you could have heard the remarks of the speakers on that occasion, I think there was not one of them who did not call upon the people to maintain order, to be quiet and wait for a peaceful and legal solution of this difficulty. The second resolution which they passed declared that we are a lawful and law-abiding people, that we recognize the obligation and binding force of the treaties by which the Chinese came here, and we propose to respect it, and continue to protect it. It is unjust to the large majority to hold them responsible for such outrages. If you saw a Chinaman assaulted in Montgomery or Merchant street, and there were three white people there, two of them would turn in and defend the Chinaman against the assailant. Yet the outrages do happen in certain portions of our town, We have got an element of wild young men here, and they dislike the Chinamen.

I do not think the introduction of the 150,000 Chinese we have now has any appreciable effect upon our oriental trade, nor has the introduc- tion of their traders had any appreciable effect upon our trade.

I would desire to keep this coast and this country as the heritage and

PIXLEY

home of an immigration that can become united with us, that can assimi- late with us, and that can make a great state and a great people, highly civilized, and belonging to our race, and not to come in contact with any other civilization. I think the case of our state to-day is parallel with that of Virginia. One hundred and fifty to 300 years ago Virginia had a broad acreage, a splendid soil, an inviting climate, but few white people ; labor was dear. They wanted cheap labor, and through the merchants of Boston and New England, then engaged in the slave-trade, negroes were imported there, and the result, after 100 or 150 years, has been a war and a desolation that has injured our country more than all the other Virginia 100 to 300 things united in the world. Now we have the parallel of it here. We have pared with Cali- years ago com- a broad empire, we have a splendid climate, rich land, and there are some fornia to-day. people who indulge in the heresy of thinking we ought to have cheap labor. I do not think so. They sent to China for it. We are planting the seeds of Mongolian slavery here, that will grow up to be just as for- midable, and is growing more rapidly than it did on the eastern coast ; for it took Virginia 100 years to get as many Africans as we got China- men in ten years.

Chinese labor, technically, is free ; in fact, it is not.

They do not speak our language nor understand the philosophy of our law ; we do not speak their language, and cannot communicate to them even their rights.

Contact with the Chinese tends to deteriorate us and retard our growth.

If they were enfranchised they would exercise that privilege freely of their own volition at once. They are a shrewd, subtle, keen, intelligent people ; anybody who undertakes to underrate them as inferior, mistakes this whole problem. They are not the inferior race ; tested by many things they are superior to us. When I spoke of their being inferior I Chinese in some referred to their vices. They could be bought and sold if trusted with respects superior to us. the elective franchise. Politics with them would become merely mer- chandise. They would sell their votes, and place them where they would do the most good for themselves ; and when they got a majority, where Votes. Political. they could control the politics of the country, they would take it and elect their own people.

In this way are they inferior : They attained the acme of civilization a long time ago, and they have stood still. We are a progressive nation. Limitations of the They invented type, and yet they have not carried it to the extent of a Chinese intellect. power press ; they invented gunpowder, and yet they did not carry it to the extent of developing the machinery of war for its use ; they invented the compass, and yet they never extended their commerce over the whole world guided by that compass-they are an anomalous and curious people to us.

HERMAN SILVERBERG, foreman at the Standard Shirt Factory, sworn and SILVERBERG examined :

There are in the neighborhood of 100 Chinese engaged in the manu- Manufacture of facture of white shirts ; in the colored line, which includes clothing, overalls, etc, there are a great many more. At our factory we have in the neighborhood of seventy or eighty inside and perhaps double that number outside. The manufacture can be carried on by white labor, and is paid by the piece. An experienced hand either white or Chinese can earn from $8 to $10 per week.

white shirts-100 Chinese employed.

17

The manufacturing interests which I represent were started three years ago, and assumed their present proportion something over a year ago ; previous to that we were supplied from Philadelphia and New York. There may be in the neighborhood of 500 or 600 females engaged in the business, directly and indirectly. Five years ago there were, perhaps, twenty-five or thirty.

The Chinese are industrious. It takes them from a year to eighteen months to become experienced hands in our trade. They learn as readily as the whites.

There are one or two girls who are working for us who say they get more wages here than they did at home. White help is employed in separ- ate departments, not in the same class of work as the Chinese. The Chinese are paid by the piece, and receive their wages individually.

There are a few Chinamen who learn the business and teach the others. When more help is wanted, we tell some one of the workmen and they bring their friends along. In China they have no knowledge of making such shirts as we are accustomed to wear.

We advertised that we were willing to employ all the white labor that we could use, providing they would give time to learn the business. We have perhaps of fifty or sixty applicants about twelve remaining who have become fair workers ; it took some of them two or three months to become such. They were paid by the dozen in the meantime. New hands are paid according to the grade of the shirt, from $2 a dozen upward. They would make perhaps at least one dozen, one and a half, afterward two and three. We have some girls now who make four dozen after being there four or five months, and are enabled to earn from $8 to $10 a week. All the work is done in the factories except in one branch-hand needle- work-which is done outside by white help, mostly by women who have families, or girls who have to help their mothers or parents at home. There are three different parts before the shirt is made, and for each particular part there is a different price. In making bosoms it depends upon the amount of labor required-from ten cents to $2 a dozen is paid. For finishing from $1.25 to $2 is paid.

CORNELIUS A. MAHONY, engaged in the smelting business in Peru, sworn and examined :

If the Chinese were absent there would not be enough white labor, at present, to carry on the business. There might be eventually. Chinese labor was not skilled when first employed, but it was the class of labor that was here, and they were instructed in the business, for there were no others here to do it. The work is done almost exclusively by female help. There are several other smaller factories here. I do not think Chinese competition has the effect of preventing white immigration at present.

There are a number of Chinese in Peru. In 1872 and 1873 there were from 70,000 to 80,000. They all come under labor contracts, in point of fact they are simply slaves. Their contract binds them to serve for eight years. They get, generally, a bounty of $20-some small sum-in Macao, where they are shipped. Macao is a small island at the mouth of Canton River. Their contracts are generally made, as I understand, before the Portuguese authorities there and before the Peruvian Consul. They then are brought on board ship, and confined in a manner that would

MAHONY

recall the horrors of the middle passage, and brought to Peru. In 1872 the number of Chinese who came was 14,530, and of that number there was an average of about ten per cent. of death-rate on the passage. The Chinese there are just the same class as the Chinese here, and are charged with being river pirates, or of that class, in fact of the lowest order. The firm I was employed with were the largest coolie importers in Peru. I believe the traffic has now been stopped. I had under me from thirty to forty Chinese.

In 1873, I believe, a dispute arose between the Portuguese authorities and the Peruvian Government as to the treatment of the coolies on board ship, at the Chinchas and Guanape Islands, where they were employed in the guano trade. That was got over, and in 1874 the importation was very large. In the meantime a strong sentiment was growing in the country against the Chinese. The laboring people, the peons, considered Sentiment grew that the Chinese were likely to reduce the price of labor just as the people them. here think now, and they did in fact; because a Chinaman's contract bound him to work for $4 a month and two pounds of rice a day. Consequently it was very likely that a peon who wanted a little comfort, who wanted a little meat with his dinner, and wanted a comfortable habitation, naturally felt that he was suffering, and in Peru, as revolu- Congress of 1875. tions are easily got up, it brought a certain pressure on the Government. It was the Congress, I believe, of 1875, which passed the Act putting an end in future to all this importation of coolies into Peru. The firm I was connected with, I am told, has been no longer able to carry on because of this law.

No Chinese women at all were imported ; in fact I only saw one little Chinese girl. The result of this was that crimes of the most horrible and unmentionable kind were common among them which it was found im- Sodomy. possible to prevent. They were in point of fact sodomites of the worst kind. They were treated very badly, in many cases, in Peru.

In the Guanape Islands the unfortunate wretches have thrown them- selves by the hundreds into the sea in distraction. They used to get a lot of negro overseers armed with whips, and they would beat them around and all that kind of thing.

There is a class here that does not exist in Peru. I allude to merchants and some respectable Chinese ; otherwise their condition, intellectual qualifications and general moral and physical condition was the same as it is here.

The Portuguese Government has regulated the traffic. They published a law or regulations, all of which I have seen published in a paper in Callao-the South Pacific Times. They were not observed.

A Chinaman in the streets of Valparaiso is a very rare occurrence. I have been in all parts of Chili where there are large copper mines. If they could get Chinese cheap labor there they would get it, because the labor is necessarily cheaper where a man only gets $4 a month and is to find his own clothes.

The feeling against them in Peru in 1873 and 1874, was stronger than it can possibly be here, for the reason that the people believed that it tended. to lower not only the rate of wages but their social status, and feared an intermixture of population. At the end of his contract it is compulsory for him to go back, or sign another for a like period. If they were allowed to go free and compete with labor there, there would be an insurrection almost immediately. That they work in factories I have no doubt, but that they are fit to work along with white men in such work as smelting or any work of that kind is not the fact. A man cannot work on rice

up in Peru against

and do hard manual labor. They are not capable of doing anything that requires physical strength. They appeared to come to us with a constitu- tional scrofulous taint about them. They were always weak in the joints Physical condition or getting sores, or getting into a nasty and fearful condition. We used tainted. to send four or five in a month out of thirty to the hospital over at Callao, and there was no reason for that that I could see, except that they must have been originally of a very poor, degraded class in China.

They do not learn English fast, but they do Spanish. The Chinaman's idea all the time appears to be to get back to China.

The condition of the Chinese here is worse than their condition in Peru, where they are to a certain extent bondsmen. They are made, in a ma- Enforced cleanli- jority of cases, in that country to keep a certain amount of cleanliness, ness. In a state of slavery. such as making them sweep out their quarters, and turn out their mats and shake them, clean the whole place, disinfect it, and all that kind of thing.

They seem to be quite careless, and have no care and no sympathy for one of their sick, and no respect for their dead.

I have seen three Chinese funerals during the two years and a half I have been here.

The condition of the native classes in Peru and Chili is good. They are industrious ; they will do more work than a Chinaman. I allude to the peons and cholos. The cholos do most of the skilled labor. A peon is a term generally applied to a workingman ; a cholo signifies a half-breed between an Indian and one of the Spanish, or descendants of the Spanish, people who settle in the country. There is no such thing as a bondsman in Peru with the exception of the Chinese.

The coolies imported to the Spanish forts are taken all over the country -over sugar plantations and works of that kind. There are no China- towns there.

The form of government in Peru is republican and every Peruvian is entitled to vote. A peon is a free citizen not a bondsman.

Solution of labor problem.

I am an Irishman and have been in Ireland and in numbers of cabins of the peasantry. Every cabin has its pig's sty, but it is not attached by / any means --- it is a mere traveller's story. I think the true labor problem is not the cheapening of labor, but its distribution ; that its solution is to be found, not in the bringing here of a worthless class to overwhelm white labor, but in the taking of the men who have no employment in the east and bringing them here, giving all our own people meat and bread, and enabling every man to bring up his children as good citizens.

SAN FRANCISCO, November 9th, 1876.

GILES H. GRAY, Surveyor of the Port, sworn and examined :

The provisions of the Page Law, 1875, prohibits the immigration or land- ing of prostitutes and convicts from oriental countries, lepers and diseased persons and paupers not being mentioned. Previous to this Act there had arrived upon these steamers 200 to 400 women, frequently, the steamers arriving twice a month. During the quarter from Ist July to the Ist Oc- tober, 1875, there did not arrive 161 females, and we had no information which would enable us to prohibit the landing of any of them ; the next quarter, the last of the year, the number was reduced to forty-four. In the first quarter of the year 1876, it was reduced to fifteen ; in the second quarter

thirty-two ; and in the third quarter, twenty-four. The women which' have been landed since we have commenced to enfore the Page Law I have every reason to believe are respectable women, and they are all accom- panied by a photograph and a letter-a certificate like this : [witness pro- duced letter and certificate which were read]. When a vessel arrives here no woman is allowed to go ashore until after the mail has arrived and she is compared with the picture. Sometimes it is twenty-four hours before they can go ashore.

Before coming to California she has to file a written application, which is referred to a committee of examiners appointed by the Consul. They take such testimony as they see proper, procure the photographs, compare them, and if the testimony is satisfactory, they then permit them to come, and forward to us a letter and the photographs. [The witness exhibits three photographs of women who were prohibited from coming.] These women did not arrive. I do not think there are any prostitutes arriving here at all now. I think the Page Law has effectually stopped that source of immigration. No complaints have been made at the custom house in relation to Chinese women.

The authorities at Hong Kong are exercising diligence now in prevent- ing prostitutes from coming.

Every Chinese passenger arriving is accompanied with a certificate from the Consul. The certificate shows that they are not included in these limitations, and I think it goes on to say they are not contract-laborers or contract-coolies, or criminals. It gives the names, and occupations, and where they come from. If the certificate authorizes the landing of 1,000 and there should be 1,200, we should keep the last 200 on board, we cannot tell which is which, whether they are the proper ones sent on board or not. I have seen it stated in the published reports of the proceed- ings of this Commission, that there are criminals arriving, not that they are all criminals, perhaps.

Referring again to the excess of passengers arriving and not on the certificate, we measure the vessel to see if there is an excess over and above what the vessel is allowed to carry; if a vessel has more aboard than she is allowed under the United States laws, we report the vessel for fine, and proceed against the vessel in every case, and get fines imposed. To that extent we have suppressed immigration in that manner.

My opinion is that excessive Chinese immigration should be stopped or Excessive Chinese suppressed. There are Chinese merchants here who are, I believe, honest immigration - should be stopped. business men, and they are a benefit to the country; but there is a class of coolies which come here which might be prevented by the United States Consul, and which never should come, but ought to be prohibited. They are a sort of wild race of Tartars. The largest portion is this kind and If properly ought to be prohibited. If Chinese immigration was restricted by restricted sees no harm in it. proper regulations, I do not see any harm in it.

The proportion of industrious working people and idlers among them is about the same as among the whites.

The Chinese ought to be compelled by law to separate and to take space to live in the same as white people. The Japanese adopt our habits when they come here, and there is scarcely any prejudice against them, whereas the Chinese come here and bring their customs, and manners, and ways of living, and they do not make desirable citizens.

The Chinese merchants import, not the Chinaman individually. They also use imported goods.

We always had the sympathy of the Chinese merchants in stopping the immigration of prostitutes. They did all they could to help us. There

Precautions against the immi- gration of prosti- tutes.

are some of those merchants whom I believe to be honest, and who would tell just what was the truth.

GIBSON. REV. OTIS GIBSON, in charge of the missions of the Methodist Church here for eight years, formerly a resident in China for ten years, sworn and examined :

The translations of the two original contracts I recognize as my own work, and they are correct, as follows :-

Contracts binding prostitutes into slavery.

" An agreement to assist the woman Ah Ho, because coming from China to San Francisco she became indebted to her mistress for passage. Ah Ho herself asks Mr. Yee-Kwan to advance for her $630, for which Ah Ho distinctly agrees to give her body to Mr. Yee for service as a prostitute for a term of four years. " There shall be no interest on the money. Ah Ho shall receive no wages. At- the expiration of four years, Ah Ho shall be her own master. Mr. Yee-Kwan shall not hinder or trouble her. If Ah Ho runs away before her time is out her mistress shall find her and return her, and whatever expense is incurred in find- ing and returning her, Ah Ho shall pay.

On this day of the agreement, Ah Ho with her own hands, has received from Mr. Yee-Kwan $630.

" If Ah Ho shall be sick at any time for more than ten days, she shall make up by an extra month of service for any ten days sickness.

" Now this agreement has proof. This paper received by Ah Ho is witness. " TUNG CHEE.

" Twelth year, ninth month, fourteenth day."

That would be about October, 1873. The agreement is supposed to be made here. One of these cases mentioned in this agreement was arrested, and tried by me. I would not know them now. One was sent to the mission house. The following is the other contract: -

" An agreement to assist a young girl named Loi Yau. Because she became indebted to her mistress for passage, food &c., and has nothing to pay, she makes her body over to the woman Sep Sam, to serve as a prostitute to make out the sum of $503.

" The money shall draw no interest, and Loi Yau shall receive no wages. Loi Yau shall serve four and a half years.

"On this day of agreement Loi Yau receives the sum of $503, in her own hands .. When the time is out Loi Yau may be her own master, and no man shall trouble her.

"If she runs away before the time is out and any expense is incurred in catch- ing, then Loi Yau must pay that expense.

If she is sick fifteen days or more, she shall make up one month for every fifteen days.

"If Sep Sam should go back to China, then Loi Yau shall serve another party till her time is out.

"If in such service she should be sick one hundred days or more, and cannot be cured, she may return to Sep Sam's place.

" For a proof of this agreement this paper.

"LOI YAU.

"Dated second day, sixth month, of the present year."

These papers bear their signatures in the shape of a mark. Sometimes. they do not use the agreement. The girl has a copy of this paper and is supposed to keep it. She sometimes loses it, and has no redress.

Fuh Chau is in the province of Fuh Kien about half-way between Hong Kong and Shanghai. I lived among the Chinese, studied their language, and became conversant with the common people and with the merchants .. For six months I was interpreter for the American Consul, and did all the business of the consulate, so that I came in contact with many officials and all classes of society, being able to converse with them in the Fuh Kien dialect of Fuh Chau, the leading dialect of the whole province, embracing

GIBSON.

some 25,000,000 people. The dialect is not understood in Canton. The written language is the same through all the land. Since I came here I have been compelled to learn this dialect so far as able, called the Canton dialect. The people who come from the country, a few hundred miles from Canton, generally have a somewhat different dialect. We commonly speak of them as the Sam-yup and the Se-yup. The Sam-yup is the city dialect, the leading and controlling dialect, and three-fifths of the people here speak the Se-yup. The laboring people are largely of that class. They can un- derstand each other, but not quite so readily as they can understand their own people. I have had constant intercourse with them here all the time for eight years.

I know something about the action taken in reference to sending back Prostitutes. prostitutes. On one occasion I sent back ten. On the arrival of a steamer here the police authorities corraled a number of these women, and sent for me to come down and ask them certain questions. I went, and asked them where they came from, and why, who were their parents, and if they had any friends here, etc. ; if they wished to remain or go back, what their business was, and many questions of that kind. The result was that out of the whole number there were ten who said they had been kidnapped or forced to come here, and wished to go back. They were sent up to the mission house. I sent a China boy down to the Chinese Ten said they had merchants to tell them that I had ten women who wished to go back, who said they had been brought here against their will. The merchants back. sent all the money necessary, and more, to send them back. They were not sent back because they were lewd women : it was simply a voluntary matter on their own part. A large part of the women who come here are brought for lewd purposes.

I am not in favor of a large and rapid influx of immigration from any foreign country whatever. At times it has been too rapid for the best in- terests of the country. I believe that a large portion of the European immigration so rapidly admitted to citizenship and the right of suffrage is more dangerous to the institutions and prosperity of this country than is the smaller and better regulated immigration from Asia.

It is well known here that the Chinese pay high rents and pay promptly. They pay more than $1,000,000 annually in rents alone.

As to Chinese cheap labor, all testimony goes to show that in California we have no cheap labor as compared with the eastern states. The pres- ence of the Chinese has reduced the exorbitant price of labor which pre- vailed in the early days of our history, and by this means they have opened industries, cheapened products, and made it possible for poor white men to come here with their families and live and thrive. It is an indisputable fact that at the present time in California, in spite of a peculiar cry about the evils of Chinese labor, labor for industrious white White labor in ac men is as abundant, if not more abundant, wages are as high, if not higher, satisfactory condition in and living as cheap, if not cheaper, and the general condition of the white California. laboring classes is as good, if not better, than in any other part of the United States, or of this world. Cheap labor makes cheap products, Cheap labor cheap living. Flour at $50 per barrel, wages $10 per day, five days' makes cheap pro -. ducts-chaap work will buy a barrel of flour ; with flour at $6 per barrel, wages $2 per living. day, three days' work will buy the same barrel. I believe that all the industries of the state, all the capital of this state looking for investment in industrial pursuits, demand this competition of labor as an indispens- able element of investment, of development, and of success as a question Instance to prove. of political economy. I know an instance in this city of a gentleman who proposed to invest largely in a certain manufacturing enterprise. Before manufactories.

been kidnapped and wished to go>

Believes a large portion of the European immi- gration more dangerous than the Asiatic. Pay more than $1,000,000 annually. in rents.

necessity of Chinese labor for-

GIBSON

No overalls and slippers for the trade made until Chinamen came.

The Chinese not taken employ- ment from women.

doing so he enquired the price of white labor, and the price of the product that he should manufacture, and found he could not invest his money. He then enquired how much Chinese labor would cost, and he found, if he would bring in a part of Chinese labor and a part of white labor, he could manufacture with some profit. He went into the business, but he would not have gone into it if the Chinese had not been here. I think the same thing is true generally. This competition here is limited to a few of the lighter and slower industries. The Chinamen make overalls, slippers, shoes, cigars, shirts, etc., but no overalls or slippers for the trade were made in this country until the Chinamen made them. They do no labor upon the public works of the city, nor upon any public buildings of the state. Generally speaking, there are no Chinese house-carpenters, brick- layers, painters, plumbers, glaziers, blacksmiths, foundrymen ; no Chinese printers, bookbinders, tailors, milliners, mantua-makers ; no bankers or insurance agents, no commission merchants of American or European goods. They offer no competition to our lawyer, nor to doctors, preachers, school-teachers, nor to any profession whatever. Instead of driving any of these mentioned laborers or professions from the field, the presence and labor of the Chinese have opened up industries which have certainly stimulated the demand for such white laborers and professional men as I have mentioned. As to the charge that the Chinese have taken employ- ment from our women and girls, there may be single instances of that kind, but as a general charge it is not true. House-servants, sewing- women, and laundry work are as well paid in San Francisco as in New York, Philadelphia, or Chicago. My wife dismissed a Chinese boy whom she was paying $16 a month, and took a girl into the house who came from the east, where she had been working on a dairy-farm at $2 a week, milking cows, summer and winter; we gave her "the same wages as the boy, $16 a month.

It is objected that the Chinese do not learn our language, and do not at- tend our schools. The fact is they are taxed to support our schools, but are peremptorily refused admission to their privileges on account of race- prejudice. There are many young children in Chinatown, but neither the state nor the city is providing any schools for their education. Many of the Chinese are learning something of our language. There are about 750 average attendants upon the various evening mission schools and pri- vate classes in the state, involving a roll-call of 2,500. There are about 1,000 average attendants upon the various Sabbath schools, involv- ing a roll-call of about 3,000. These are all studying the English language. Besides these there are thousands learning our language in families as family servants. It may be safely said that we have no other foreign immigration that, with so little encouragement, makes equal efforts to Instance in which learn our language, laws and customs. A young man, a son of a Chinese a young China- man cut off his American dress. merchant, who has attended our mission school for two and a half years, ; queueandadopted has just been admitted to Napa Collegiate Institute in this state, and is doing well. Of his own free choice, and with the full consent of his father, the young man cut off his queue and adopted the full American dress. There are hundreds of other young men anxious to do this same thing, but want of money prevents their doing so. If the rights of citizenship and the elective franchise depended solely upon a knowledge of our language, laws, and customs, and a good character as regards intel- ligence, industry and morals, quite a number of Chinese would soon ask for naturalization papers, and have a right to them. The fact that there are now in our eastern colleges and schools between 100 and 200 Chinese youths, supported and schooled by the Chinese Government, indicates a

GIBSON

strong national desire to become acquainted with our language, customs, and principles of government.

As to the morals of the Chinese, the civilization of China is lower than Chinese morals the Christian civilization of our country. The standard and practice of morality by the Chinese people is not equal to the standard and practice of those who accept the Gospel of Christ as their rule of practice ; but nation. the standard of Chinese morals is higher and better than that of any other heathen nation in the world. They are very fond of their children. They have profound respect for age and experience. They are great traders, and have the reputation in all the world of being as honest and reliable in commercial and business transactions as are the peoples with whom they have traded. Even here they have the reputation of paying promptly their rents, taxes, and debts.

The charge of immorality brought against the Chinese here may be brought with almost if not quite equal force against most of the European immigration, whether the specific charge be drunkenness, profanity, fight- ing and quarrelling, gambling, or prostitution. The same labor that has lately been bestowed in ferreting out the vices of the 30,000 Chinese in this city, if bestowed in special efforts to ferret out the vices of 30,000 im- migrants from Europe of the common laboring classes, would produce a chapter of crimes, vices, and misery quite equal to that presented against the Chinese.

The charge that Chinese prostitutes are demoralizing our boys, if true to Chinese prosti any extent is a sad comment upon our boasted superiority. But there is tutes and the boys. one very important and material consideration in connection with this matter of demoralizing our boys that ought not to be overlooked-that is this : There are more liquor saloons and liquor groceries in this city and in this country than there are Chinese prostitutes. It is quite safe to say that all these boys who visit these prostitutes take their first lessons of demoralization in some one of the 3,000 whiskey saloons or liquor groceries licensed by this Christian municipality, kept mostly and patron- ized largely by immigrants from Europe. The same class of demoralized boys, and in quite as large a proportion, is found in all our eastern cities, where Chinese prostitution is not known.

The statement has been made that the Chinese fill our prisons, gaols, hospitals, and asylums, but the facts as shown by official reports do not exactly sustain the charge. In the state's prison a larger per cent. of Average of crime. Chinese criminals is found than of the whites, but the comparison is made as between the Chinese on the one hand and all the whites, including American-born, on the other hand. It is well known that a larger per cent. of crime, vice, and misery is found among the immigrants from Europe than among native-born Americans. It will only be fair to com- pare the statistics of crime, vice, and pauperism among the immigrants from some European country-Ireland, for instance. On this basis we find at the present time in our San Quentin prison, 1,158 prisoners, of whom 199 are Chinese, 160 are born in Ireland, 615 native Americans, and 184 from all other foreign countries. About 400 of the whole number are Roman Catholics. I do not think that there are more people in the state from Ireland than there are from China. The Irish population has more women and children, a class always producing less criminals; so that, bad as the case is against the Chinamen filling our prisons, the same charge stands with equal if not greater force against the Irishman. The official reports of the industrial school for the year ending July 1st, 1875, give the total number as 225; their nationalities being 194 native Americans, seven Irishmen, and four Chinese. The alms-house official

lower than Chris- tian, but higher than those of any other heathen

report for the same time, gives the total number as 498 ; native born, 143 ; from Ireland, 197 ; Chinese, none. The hospital report for the same time, gives the total at 3,918 ; natives of the United States, 1,112 ; born in Ireland, 1,308 ; born in China, eleven. One hundred and eighteen Irishmen to one Chinaman is the way the Chinese are filling our hospitals. The pest-house report, which is the Chinese hospital, for the same time gives the total number at twenty-two ; Chinese none.

If we continue to make our comparisons between our Chinese and European immigrants, we shall find as large a proportion of the one selling liquor as of the other selling opium.

It is a fact that the Chinese are addicted to gambling and all kinds of chance games, but there can be no doubt but that more money is lost and won in this city every day by white gamblers than by all the other Chinese in America.

The remedy for this class of evils, as well as the remedy for dirty streets, alleys, tenements, etc., would seem to rest in the municipal govern- ment rather than in the abrogation of national treaties or special Acts of Congress.

Gambling and prostitution are not legalized and licensed by the laws of China. The laws and the higher mandarins generally prohibit these vices ; but, as in other countries, petty officials receive bribes to permit the unlawful traffic. The municipal authorities here lately demonstrated their ability to suppress Chinese gambling and prostitution houses to a large extent ; but nearly all the gambling-houses, and many of the houses. of prostitution, are now open again.

The Chinese excite less riots, commit fewer assaults, and murders, etc., than almost any other foreign population among us. There is a class of bad Chinamen who do such things. Riots among themselves have been few, and they have never incited nor engaged in a riot against white men in this country. No riot among themselves in this country has ever begun to equal the outrages of the Alameda local option election in this state in which drunken Europeans insulted and assaulted respectable American women, and respectable American-born citizens were driven by brute European force from the polls. Chinese immigration has never yet committed such an outrage upon American people nor upon American institutions.

They seldom commit assaults among themselves, almost none upon white people. Hardly a day passes that our newspapers do not record a case of unprovoked and frequently unpunished assault upom some in- offensive Chinaman.

There is no doubt but that they constantly perjure themselves in our courts, but the class of Chinese who get into our courts are generally the most depraved and unreliable. They are not the only ones who commit perjury. A late judge of the county court (Judge Stanly) remarked to me that perjury in our courts by white witnesses is as common as the smoking of cigars upon our streets.

I do not hesitate to express my opinion that in simple brain-power and possibilities of culture, the Chinese race is equal to any other people in the world.

The Chinese who have embraced Christianity all assert, most posi- tively, that the Chinese do not come here as slaves to any person nor to any company. The thousands of Chinese house-servants all receive their own wages and use the money as they please. If they were all slaves their masters would not allow them to spend their earnings in gambling, as many now do. There is no class of laborers in America to-day more free to do as they please than are the Chinamen.

They often borrow money to get here, and agree to pay high premiums or interest, but the agreement is in the amount of money rather than in in the number of years of service. At the present time the most who Immigrants. come, if assisted at all, are assisted by their relatives, or friends, or townsmen who were here before them. They come for the express pur- pose of making money to better their condition. Many of them become Industrial attached to this country, and choose to come back, after their return to character. China, to live and die here. They are willing to do any kind of labor ; and as laborers they are generally industrious, faithful, and satisfactory.

Instead of preventing white labor coming from Europe and from the Stimulated eastern states, I believe that up to this time we have had a larger immi- instead of re- pressed white gration of that class than we should have had if the Chinamen had not immigration. been here.

As to health, we have no more healthy class among us than the Chinese. Healthy. As to their cleanliness, they are not a clean people ; but in this city and than the same Not more filthy county I do not think they are more filthy than the same number of number of Euro -. European common laborers would be.

The Chinese in America are nearly all from the province of Canton, in the south of China, and sail from Hong Kong, a British port.

pean common laborers.

Few Chinamen in this country, in proportion to their whole number Few Chinamen have brought their families with them. It is not their custom when emi- families. have brought their grating to any point in their own country to take their first wives and children with them. Their women are averse to coming. Many of these men become attached to the prostitutes whom they visit, purchase them, They sometimes marry the prosti- and live with them as husband and wife ; and the children, if any are tutes they visit. born, are considered legitimate. Lately many are marrying after our forms.

I suppose there are 5,000 or 6,000 Chinese women in this country, the most of whom are prostitutes. They are bought and sold like slaves at the will of their masters.

There are six Chinese companies, representing the principal places from Six companies which the Chinese have come. Besides these general companies there are and guilds. several societies, or guilds, or unions representing different trades and pursuits, composed of men from all the different six companies.

The Hip-ye-tung and the Po-sang-tung associations, whose principal Two other associa- tions for protec-

business has been to stimulate and protect the gambling and the women tion of gambling traffic, are different from the Six Companies. There is also the Chinese and prostitution. Young Men's Christian Association, which has severed all connection with the Six Companies.

The famous Six Companies are simply voluntary associations for The Six Com- panies.

mutual protection and benefit. It is the universal custom of the Chinese, when emigrating to any new country, to at once form themselves into a guild or association of this kind; and every Chinaman from the same region naturally seeks membership in this guild. They have their place of meeting, and elect annually their officers in a very democratic way. Differences that arise among members are referred to the officers and leading influential members for arbitration and settlement. Advice and aid are given to the new comer and to the sick. They are not mercantile firms in any sense ; neither are they courts of justice, but voluntary asso- ciations for mutual aid and benefit. They do not claim, nor do they exercise, any judicial authority. All the restraining power which these companies hold or exercise over the people is through an arrangement with the various steamship companies, by which no Chinaman can pur- chase a passage to China without first procuring a permit of departure from these companies. They claim to do this in order to prevent dishonest

GIBSON

Chinamen from running away before their debts are paid. They claim that all Chinese in this country belong to one or another of these six companies, except the Young Men's Christian Association, which is sup- posed to have a membership of about 1,000; but they never claim, and they deny the charge, that they have ever imported any of these men who belong to their companies.

The masses of Chinese here are ignorant of, and take little interest in, our politics ; but among the merchants, and especially among the young men attending the schools, are found very many who take an intelligent interest in the politics of this country.

The most of the Chinese now in America were common laborers, farmers, and such like in their own country, mostly poor, industrious people ; their physical condition is as good, if not better, in this country than in China, and is constantly and gradually improving.

The population of China is from 350,000,000 to 400,000,000.

Chinese civiliza- tion.

The civilization of the Chinese Empire is the oldest known in history. The Government, which is Abrahamic or patriarchal in theory, is suffi- ciently powerful to hold in check and comparative order the immense mass of 400,000,000 of beings. As a people they are eminently conserva- tive, the same school-books, the writings of Confucius and Mencius, have been used in their schools for hundreds of years. This has stamped a common character upon all the people. The written language, common in all parts of the empire, is not a spoken language in any part of the country. There are various dialects in different localities. These different dialects are almost as numerous as are the great cities of China, and differ almost as do the spoken languages of Europe. The Chinese of one locality have but little affinity for or sympathy with those of a different locality. What the Chinese As to scholarship, the average Chinese scholar knows little or nothing "scholar" knows. about geography, mathematics, natural philosophy, chemistry or astronomy. His knowledge of history is confined to an epitome of the history of his own country and people. He knows no language except his own, and yet he is no mere novice, his memory is truly wonderful ; his knowledge of the relations and duties between man and man, between the people and the rulers, is remarkable ; and in diplomacy the Chinese have no equals. Schools abound in China. Probably not one-fifth of the population have what might be termed a common school education. The masses know the written characters representing the common articles of food and clothing without being able to read a single page of literature. In the arts the Chinese have made no progress for centuries.

Stagnation. For many hundred years no new inventions have appeared in China. Their system of printing from the first has been the same as now. They cut it on boards, the size of the page, and it stands out in relief. In Religion, fatalism. science, government, and religion, everything is stereotyped ; everything runs in the same old rut. The religion of the educated may be formulat- ed as blind fatality. ; the religion of the masses, a heartless, superstitious idolatry. The whole land is full of idols. The whole civilization of China has stood still for centuries, and to purify it, it needs to be moved and stirred from centre to circumference by contact and friction with the Christian civilization of America and Europe. They have always dis- couraged emigration from their shores, and have been constantly and bitterly opposed to every attempt by outside nations to settle among them. Living thus, the Chinese people seem generally to be filled with the strange conceit that they are superior to all other nations of the earth. For centuries the civilization of the Chinese has been in advance of the nations and peoples of Asia, with whom

Regard them- selves as superior to all other nations of the earth.

GIBSON

alone they have had intercourse. They have schools and colleges ; they understand political economy; they have an immense coast and inland commerce ; they understand agricultural pursuits equal to any people in the world ; they build houses, and temples and immense stone bridges ; they have a great navigable canal system, reaching through almost the entire length of the country ; they make silks, satins, and cotton cloth ; they are elaborate carvers of ivory, wood, etc .; they make beautiful bronze castings, and exquisite chinaware ; they are industrious and frugal to the last degree.

The marriage relation is recognized and honored in China. Polygamy Marriage rela- is allowable, though not very generally practised. With them marriage tion. is rather a civil contract than a religious rite or ceremony. No public register is kept ; no certificate of marriage given. The parties pledge each other in small cups of wine, and perform together a whole ritual of pros- trations before the open heavens and also before the family penates. There is a great deal of form and ceremony, according to the rank of the parties. In taking a secondary wife, or concubine, forms and ceremonies may be omitted, she taking her place in the family with as little ceremony as a hired servant would in America. Under certain circumstances divorces are allowable, but they are not frequent. If a man marries when poor and afterward becomes rich, he may, not for any cause, put away the wife who shared his years of poverty. It is not considered respectable for a widow to marry again, and if a young girl loses her bethrothed before marriage it is considered highly meritorious in her to remain unmarried all her life. Sometimes a young lady bereaved of her betrothed husband before the consummation of marriage publicly commits suicide, in order to make her widowhood perpetual and to remove herself beyond the temptation to marry another. An instance of this self-sacrifice occurred during my residence at Fuh Chau. There is no practice of personal courtship in Marriages China as with us here. Older heads make the selections of life partners for the young and inexperienced boys and girls, as well as arranging parties. other details. Betrothals are often made while the children are quite young, and sometimes conditionally even before they are born. The married woman is subject to the will of her husband, and some- times to the control of her husband's mother. The faithfulness of married women in China to their husband's will compares favorably with the practice of the same virtue by the women of Europe and America. Husbands are not generally so chaste as the wives. Female prostitution exists in all parts of the empire, and is especially prevalent in large cities and in all sea-port towns. This class of women is usually confined to some particular quarter of the city or to boat-population. Poor people often sell their female infants to this class of panderers to human depravity, and the poor girls are brought up to perpetual bondage to the will of their villain- ous masters. Infanticide of female children is practised in all ports of the Filiacide. empire, in some sections to an alarming extent. Proclamations are some- times issued warning the people against it, not only because it is a crime, but also because the girls are becoming so scarce and expensive that the common people cannot afford to marry, and public morals are endangered.

The people of China are noted for their industry and frugality. Every man has something to do. Few people walk the streets simply for the ex- ercise, or to see the sights. There are no railroads, no horse-cars, no stage- coaches. All land transportation, especially in central and southern China, is done by the bone and muscle of human beings. Merchandise, house- furniture, and building material are all packed on men's shoulders. In his habits of living the ordinary Chinaman is exceedingly economical and

arranged by relatives of the

Industrious and frugal.

frugal. Rice and vegetables, fish, pork and fowls compose the principal diet of the people. The average Chinaman can live nicely in most parts of the empire on from seven to fifteen cents per day. The price of labor corresponds to the cheapness of living. Fifteen to twenty cents per day is very good pay, for a common laborer. Literary men of good ability can afford to teach for salaries from $6 to $10 per month, and board them- selves. House-servants receive from $2 to $4 per month and found. Serv- ing in white families in China, in the open ports, Hong Kong, Canton, Amoy, Fuh Chau, Shanghai, etc., they receive from $3 to $10 per month ; mechanics and stone-masons receive from twenty to forty cents per day. The currency used in all parts of the empire is a brass "cash," about the size of a twenty-cent piece, quite thin, with a square hole through the cen- tre. A Mexican silver dollar is worth about 1,000 brass cash. The banks, in changing brass cash for silver dollars, always take the dollars by weight. In large mercantile transactions payments are made in sycee, ¿. e., in bars, lumps, or masses of silver by weight. They have a custom of squaring accounts at the close of each year, and the rule is that debts must all be paid at that time.

It cannot be said that the Chinese, generally, in their houses and per- sonal habits of living are a neat and clean people. They bathe their persons often in warm weather, it being common for them to take a sponge-bath from a little bucket of warm water at the close of each day's work. They do not believe in cold baths under any circumstances. Their clothing in warm weather is frequently washed and kept comparatively clean. On the other hand, the water-carrier might not think it out of place to wash his feet in the water-bucket, and after rinsing bring water in the same bucket for you to drink. I saw an instance of this while living in Fuh Chau. A Chinaman will often scrub his teeth and rinse his mouth in the same dish and same water in which he has just washed his face. The dish-washer might not think it amiss to wipe his face and your dinner plate with the same cloth. In the cold weather they do not bathe their persons so frequently, nor wash their clothing so often, and the consequence is that they become exceedingly filthy, and the clothing and persons of the common people often become alive with vermin. [At this point an extract was read by the witness from Mr. W. H. Seward's " Voyage Around the World," on the civilization of the Chinese.] The work of Christianizing the Chinese nation was at first slow, but is now progressing much faster than ever before. It was ten years before a single convert was baptized at Fuh Chau, but now that mission. (Methodist Episcopal) numbers about 2,000 active church members and probationers scattered throughout the province, and about twice that number of attendants upon the regular Christian services. In this one mission there are some seventy native preachers, several of whom are ordained. These Chinese Christians are not often found in the service of the mercantile community nor in the employ of ship-captains. They are almost never seen by this class of Americans and Europeans. The missionary work in China is all done in the Chinese language. Few, if any, of the Chinese Christians can speak the English at all, and that excludes them generally from European and American service. The per- sons who testify that there are no Chinese Christians are persons who know nothing about the matter, have never visited the mission, and have never come in contact with Chinese Christians. There are now over 12,000 communicants of the Protestant Christian churches in China, and a line of Christian chapels and communities all along the coast from Canton to Shanghai, a distance of 800 or 1,000 miles. You can

travel all the way from Amoy to Fuh Chau and stop every night at. a chapel.

In California there are about 300 Chinese who have been baptized and received into the different Protestant churches. If we include the Young Men's Christian Association and other associations for learning Christian doctrines, the number comes up to nearly 1,000. Most of these men make sacrifices and endure contempt for the sake of the truth. I know instances of such being the fact.

Something has been said about the cruelty and piratical character of Humanity in the Chinese, their unwillingness to aid their fellow-men in suffering. In China. China they have public granaries from which the poor are fed at public expense in time of famine. They have lately inposed severe regulations requiring all vessels, sailors, soldiers, and officers-civil, and military, and naval -- to aid and succor shipwrecked vessels, to save life and property, giving rewards to those who obey and punishing those who neglect. In the recent floods, the officers required all boats to assist the suffering and rescue the drowning. Those who refused were immediately punished. The dealers in rice formed a ring and raised the price so high as to distress the people. The mandarins immediately published a fixed rate for rice and food. Any violation of the rule was followed by confiscation of property.

The vicious element among them here are as easily controlled as the vicious among the foreign inhabitants from any country. They are more subject to law.

I think the Chinese have the capacity and brain-power to understand Chinese capacity our political institutions.

In China the son of a poor man may rise to the highest office. The father of Confucius was a scholar but a poor man.

I was in Shanghai in 1862. It was the time of the rebellion in that northern part of China, and the imperial army and the army of the rebels had scoured the country all round about and devastated the fields, con- sumed the means of living, and tens of thousands had been driven into what we call the foreign city of Shanghai and its surroundings. There was great suffering, cholera prevailed, and thousands of people were dying . for the want of food. These people were compelled to beg, or steal, or die. The character given to the Chinese by Mr. Tobin, that half of them were beggars and thieves is not correct. It might apply to this outside population driven in by the war, but not to the Chinese city of Shanghai. Nor is it true, as stated by him, that the common people do not marry. As a general thing they do not live together at all unless they are man and wife, except professional prostitutes. I think there are much fewer of what Chinese consider to be illegitimate children in China than in almost any other country, but it must be understood that there is a system of poly- gamy, concubinage, and the children of concubines are legitimate.

I believe the Chinese have a constitution. There are six boards regu- lating the whole division of government divided into six departments. Each of the six boards has its regular constitution. They have a regular judicial system of courts, with appeal from one to the other up to the Judicial system. Emperor.

There are foundling asylums in the cities in China, where I have been, Foundling for castaway children. They are supported by contributions from rich hospitals. men, aided by the government.

If a man cannot pay his debts in China, there is no way of compelling him ; it is simply a disgrace.

The custom of their trade is to sell tea and such like by sample. With

Commercial character.

regard to this great transaction in tea, and all the great mercantile trans- actions, they must of necessity involve great confidence by our merchants in the compradors. A Chinese comprador is sent up into the country with $250,000, $300,000 or $500,000 in bulk to buy tea, and there is no security except his honesty and integrity. That class of men in China have a good character among European and American men of business for" reliability and honesty.

The position of women in China compare favorably, or better, than the position of those in the eastern part of Europe.

White servants in families here are paid from $20 to $30 per month. There are, perhaps, 200 or 300 Chinese children in the city now.

The revenues of the Six Companies are made up by voluntary contribu- tions and by permits granted to Chinamen when they want to depart. The officers are paid out of these revenues. They have also collections. If they are in need of money, they will issue their statement of a tax of so much, asking people to pay a certain sum. Some pay more and some less-half a dollar for a man, usually. It is all voluntary. Their osten- sible business and practice is of a charitable nature.

Help each other.

Their friends take care of the poor. They are a great people to help each other. Large numbers of those who are here have come for the- second time.

The vessels engaged in the coasting trade are usually engaged in a dis- reputable trade. Although the Chinese hate to punish their own people for assaults upon foreigners, so far as my experience goes they always did it, and did it quite efficiently when required to do so by our Consul. Many things that Mr. King said are true, but many things are not true.

I think there is a different standand of living required for American laborers from that the Chinese subsist upon. The American laborer's family cannot be supported on the pittance that a Chinaman can possibly bring himself down to, but an American family can be supported on the wages which Chinamen get. The Chinese, for the most common and un- skilled labor, get $1 and $1.25 a day-$30 and $35 a month. For skilled labor they get $60 a month. I think white labor in this state is as well paid as in any state in the Union. No man need work at a $1 a day besides a Chinaman, if he does not want to do so, in this country. In regard to - house-servants, of course if the people here fill up with Chinese, they do not want any whites, some employ Chinamen because they get them at low wages ; some from choice, at the same price they would to whites. I think there are very few people here without work-those who want to work. If you employ a white girl to do the work of a family of a man and his wife and several children, you have got to put out your washing and get somebody to wash the windows and front steps besides, whereas a Chinaman will do the whole work. The difficulty of getting employ- ment for women and girls is not general. The fact of there being 3,000 Chinese house-servants here does not have the tendency to exclude white girls ; because the very presence of these Chinese servants in these families makes it possible for those families to be here with all their in- dustries, and those families could not live here if they had not Chinese

servants. So far, in my opinion, Chinamen have only multiplied labor here. I think a few thousand unskilled laborers in any city will certainly multiply the facilities for skilled labor and higher industries. When labor is exorbitant so that industries cannot be carried on, then the reduction of labor down to the prices that the industries can be carried on is a bene- fit. Decently paid labor is necessary to American civilization, and we have it here. The supply and demand of labor will have something to do

GIBSON

in bringing down the price of labor generally below a decent price. I cannot educate my family, attend to my duties, give them decent clothes, and meat and other food, such as Americans live on, at a dollar a day. I do not want to ; I do not need to ; neither does any other man.

There may be some instances where Chinamen are employed as nurses. Children and Children acquire a great deal of knowledge from their parents, but from their nurses, white or Chinese, I think they never ought to learn. If they have good, intelligent nurses, well-behaved American girls, they learn something. I think the house-servants in the east are largely foreigners, and I should have just the same objection to employing them as nurses as I have against Chinamen as nurses.

I do not know how to reconcile the fact of the Chinese fondness for children and the infanticide which prevails in some parts of China. Some of them sell their female children, which does not show a fondness for them Sale of female in the persons who sell them. Sometimes they are sold knowing that they children. would be better off, sometimes for purposes of prostitution.

The Chinese, generally, are peaceful among themselves, but they have riots among themselves. I read about the bloody riots recently at Virginia City and at San José. Sometimes they arise over a woman ; sometimes about money. Feuds often occur in China between villages.

There is no slavery in China as to the male sex ; there are no slaves Not slaves. among them here. I have read somewhere that many of the Chinese get to this country by giving onerous obligations, which are secured by their certificates, and that where there is a failure to return the money the relatives themselves are sold in order to make good the contract. It is not the custom in China to sell a family.

I do not think the Chinaman here would be professed Christians except from sincere sentiments.

Perhaps my avocation would be gone if there were no Chinese here. I am a lessee of property in Chinatown, occupied by Chinese, and I shall hold it as long as I can. It is not an opium den ; I know they smoke opium there, for I have seen them, the people rooming there being opium- Opium-smoking smokers. In some other rooms that I have rented I have seen people and whiskey drinking. smoking tobacco, cigars, and drinking whiskey. The use of opium stupefies, puts them to sleep, makes them languid. It is more injurious than tobacco ; it debilitates the system. The effect of smoking opium is different from the effect of drinking whiskey, the latter stirs people up, makes them rampant, and fight sometimes ; Chinamen never fight when under the influence of opium. The building I rented was simply for the purpose of securing a chapel.

The Chinese sick are largely taken care of by their friends. There are but very few paupers who do not manage to get a little something one way or the other. They are a great people in their own country to live upon their friends.

The Chinese here are industrious, if you exclude the women who are Chinese prostitutes and the class who are gamblers. There are hardly any idle persons among them. There are fewer fights among them than among the lower whites.

They are excluded from the public schools on account of race-prejudice. In Sacramento there is a Chinese girl who attends school. I never heard 'of one here ; there may be others in some country school districts, but I do not know of it. I made application here once, and was refused by a -formal written answer. If they were admitted the night schools would have a large number of them. The mission schools are quite full all the Mission schools time. The different branches of Protestants have schools for the Chinese full.

Chinese and Euro- pean nurses.

industrious.

18

here. There are 300 or 400 regular attendants nightly. Perhaps there are 1,200 or 1,500 who attend altogether. In my school they are expected to pay $1 a month. We teach them reading, writing, geography, and grammar, the same as any other school, and employ teachers.

All Protestant denominations are represented in mission work in China. The Catholics are not there now.

In regard to the effect of Chinese labor upon white labor, hardly at any time has there been too much labor here, more than could receive adequate employment and payment. There may have been a few months once or twice when that may have been the case. At the present time the demand is equal to the supply. ' The presence of the Chinese here I do not think interferes with white labor on this coast at this time. I think it has stimulated labor and helped hundreds of white people to honorable employment. I believe the presence of the Chinese here has been an element in the prosperity of this country up to the present time.

The Chinese assimilate with our people, but do it more slowly than any other people who come here. That, I think, makes them a less desirable people as far as that one element is concerned.

I believe the matter of supply and demand will hold a good check upon Chinese immigration. I should like to see them limited to a couple of hundred on a ship.

If they were allowed to become naturalized, at first they would be slow. to embrace it. I think only those who knew the language would care about it. Many already desire to become citizens, and would make very good citizens. It would be unhappy and unfortunate, exceedingly unfor- tunate, if the Chinamen should all at once have the right of suffrage ; but I think they should be allowed to be naturalized on the same condi- tions as other people. If immigrants from Europe were not allowed to become citizens, but compelled to remain aliens, I doubt if they would come in such large numbers. It would tend to lessen immigration ; it would segregate and degrade them, and make them an inferior class.

There are only two objections that can be made, that reach my mind at all, against Chinese immigration, which do not prevail with equal force against other immigration from foreign lands. They assimilate more slowly. That is one point. The second objection is, that in case of intestine wars in China, and rebellions, and the devastation of great regions of their country, there is a simple possibility that there might come over a large influx of Chinamen to this country that could not be handled very well in the interests of the country. By limiting the number the rates of passage would be higher. It is now about $55, and the condition of Chinamen is not so much better as to make them go through very much to come if they have to pay largely to get here. They like their own country the best of any country. The treaties that are made between our country and China are for our benefit, not for the bene- fit of the Chinamen. If I understand it, the Chinamen to-day have not a single right or advantage in this country that they would not have if there was no treaty at all with the nation. We have many rights in China which the general system of government in China would not give us with- out the treaties. For no crime under heaven can a Chinese authority touch an American in China.

I do not think the Chinese Government desire their people to come here.

The masses that first arrive have little or no knowledge or idea of our institutions whatever, except that it is a free country, and that they have nothing to do but obey the laws and go on.

GIBSON

The religion of China is a lower religion and their standard of morals is lower than that of those who follow the teachings of Christ, but the standard of morals among the Chinese people is higher than among any other heathen people in the world. I think the Christianity of the Religion and Bible is superior to the teachings of the Chinese or any heathen re- morals. ligion ; but the general tone of morals in the Chinese civilization is, I think, equal to the morality of the serfs in Russia, and that of the common people of Ireland, and very likely to that of the peasantry in France or Germany. The system prevailing in France among the peasantry, of having one wife who cares for her children, is superior to polygamy existing among the Chinese. The plurality of wives is lawful in China, but it is not usual, nor is it generally practised if a family has a son. If a man has no son, and is able, he will take another wife in order to get a son. This one point in their civilization is not so desirable as the system of monogamy, but as a general thing I think the morality of the Chinese may be compared favorably with the compares favor- peasantry of Europe. There are other causes besides the teaching of re- the peasantry of ligion which affect civilization. The Chinese are not without religion, Europe. and worship has its effect upon any people. The idolatry taught in China is not taught as a system. There is no teaching of idolatry as a system ; it is simply the habits and customs of the people.

Their morality ably with that of .

The teachings of Confucius is a system of political economy as relates No idolatry as a. to the relative duties of man and man, the rulers and the people, the system. people and the rulers, the parent and the child, the child and the parent, the brother and the sister. These teachings are temporal in their charac- Teachings of ter; but there is, however, reference to a future world. The doctrine of Confucius. the golden rule is found in the writings of Confucius almost exactly as in the teachings of Jesus, except that Confucius puts it in the negative form.

Their idols are supposed to receive divine honor. It is a system of demi- gods-heroic worship. It is within the province of the emperor to issue a proclamation and to establish the worship of a new god. Some person has been of great value to the community somewhere, a great statesman, a great benefactor; and after his death the people petition that he shall be enrolled among the class of persons who may receive divine honor.

They have what we call in Chinese a "sinchepur," a family tablet, a square Worship of piece of work, with an upright piece, which slides up. On the inside of tablets. this tablet are written the names of their ancestors, the father and grand- father, and all the ancestors of the family, and it is kept in the family of the eldest son; it is the family record, and there are stated times when these tablets receive worship. They believe in the immortality of the soul.

They are not entirely unaccustomed to elections. They elect their elders of the villages who do the duty of magistrates, and settle all small troubles in the community. Their decrees are binding in custom, and are all over China.

Believe in immor- tality of the soul.

The Chinese civilization is not progressive, the Christian civilization is. The Chinese civilization is better than the Darwinian system.

I think Chinese literature is better than the French in moral tone.

Dr. Loomis is a good authority upon Chinese matters, as well as upon French. Chinese literature and the writings of Confucius. [ An extract was here read by Senator Sargent from Dr. Loomis's work, under the head of "Life of Confucius," bearing upon the future state of man.]

Chinese literature! better than

GEORGE D. ROBERT, President of the Tide Land Reclamation Company, a resident since 1850, sworn and examined :

The company proper started in with 120,000 acres of land, and have partially reclaimed 30,000 or 40,000 acres. Tule-lands we call the over- flowed lands forming a delta of the Sacramento and San Joaquin River, and also lands on the margin of the river farther up. Reclaiming these lands means building dykes, gates, and ditches, preventing the overflow. We generally employ Chinese labor by contract. In building the docks we contract by the yard, so much a yard. We go to some of the Chinese merchants or business men, and tell them we want to give a contract for a certain number of miles of levee. They will contract in large and small bodies of land, sometimes for as much as 1,000 yards with one individual. The work is measured after it is done and they receive their pay, the work generally being satisfactorily performed.

As day laborers we prefer them, for some class of work, to white men, In higher class of but generally in the higher classes of work we employ white men. The work employ whites. lands could not be reclaimed successfully with white labor at this time ; it is a class of work that white men do not like. The special advantage in Chinese labor in work of that kind is owing to the contract system. They form communities among themselves, forty, fifty or a hundred, and they are jointly interested in the contract.

Advantage of the ·contract system.

I do not know anything about the Six Companies hiring out labor. We never hire of them. The contractor is generally paid as the work pro- gresses. We pay from ten to fifteen cents a cubic yard ; and they expect to make about a dollar a day. When we hire by the month we pay $27, and they find themselves, houses, camps, and everything, their actual days' labor being tallied.

Possibly detri- mental to a certain class of white labor ; but generally an .advantage.

Possibly Chinese labor is detrimental to a certain class of white labor, but to the general prosperity of the country I think they are a great advantage. The wealth that they produce stimulates prosperity to such an extent that it gives white men higher positions. Their presence here does not affect the price of intelligent labor. The aggregate product of the wealth produced by Chinamen in this state is equal to our mines, in- cluding Nevada and Dakota-probably sixty, eighty or ninety millions a year in wealth. In fair dealing and honesty they will compare favorably with the lower classes of white men generally. The reclamation of these lands is open to white men. We give them the preference, and sometimes pay a little higher for white labor. If there were no Chinamen here at present we would have to give the business up. In the cultivation of these lands white men are generally employed ; that is, white men are generally the farmers who buy or lease, but as a rule the farmers employ more or less Chinamen. I have leased lands to poor white men who did not have money to buy teams, and we furnished them with teams, seed, a house, and everything necessary to start them. They would have nothing but their labor as capital to start on, but it would be but a very short time until they would have Chinamen doing their work for them and they would be bossing the job.

Chinamen work in gravel mines, and in some instances in quartz-mining, but generally surface-mining. They work in deep-mining as carmen.

They do work that does not require much skill, such as binding and shocking wheat. They are the best field men we have ; better than the Swede, and the Swede is the best worker we have had. They occasionally rent land, paying as much as $25 and $30 a year per acre. They raise pretty nearly all the sweet potatoes that are got here. The Chinaman is

ROBERT

the best human labor-machine in the country for certain classes of work. We employ white men, 200 or 300, all the time. Immigrants coming here will hire by the month and stay two or three months at the outside. They are not satisfied with $30 or $35 a month. They did not come to this country, they say, to work for that ; they came to make money. They want to speculate.

Chinese labor puts more labor into the hands of the white people. If Chinese labor puts it were not for them we could not employ white men. In the state they inore into hands of white men. are generally employed as farm hands, in vineyards, building railroads, draining tule-lands, in certain classes of manufacturing, as house-servants, and in washing. White labor could not be got to reclaim these lands. In some cases we might have got them by paying decent wages, but as a general thing white men will not do that work. As a general proposition, when I buy a thing I buy it as cheap as I can. White men are more trustworthy in handling horses and machinery. We can explain things to them, and they are better than Chinamen in that respect. I am very much opposed to extending the franchise. I have no doubt the more intelligent of the Chinese would make good citizens. The objection to Chinamen voting If Chinese had would be that they would probably be controlled by men who employed votes they would be controlled by them, because they do not understand the language, and are not familiar those who with the institutions of the country. I think, considering their subjection, employed them. that they are much better than slaves or negroes were. They are not politicians ; they do not care about our parades or excitements. As to contract-labor, I think that is a mistake. I find my Chinamen entirely Chinamen individ- independent of the bosses. When the bosses do not pay them they come nally independent- to me. Each man has his account, and he holds the boss responsible. The percentage the bosses make is simply the profit on selling rice. It is very seldom they make anything at all on the contract per acre. It is the storekeepers who do the contracting. The boss says: "I get twelve cents a yard ; here is my contract ; you go and work at twelve cents ; " and they let it out in small contracts in that way. We do not pay the indi- vidual Chinaman ; we pay all to one man, and he has to pay out to his own men. There have been two or three instances of dishonest bosses, who have made use of the money and defrauded the laborers. I do not think they are models as to honesty, but they are about as reliable as the common run of men who fill such positions.

Rev. DAVID DEAL, a representative of the preacher's meeting of the DEAL. Methodist Ministerial Association, sworn and examined .

Witness read a memorial from the association in which the " habits of industry and quietness of demeanor" of the Chinese was dwelt on ; their ('hinese; freedom from alms-seeking; their eagerness to learn the English language, charac and interest in the Scriptures, as manifested in Sabbath schools. They had been personally acquainted with a number of genuine converts, and were impressed with a firm conviction that faithful Christian effort would lead the Chinese to appreciate "our Christian civilization." The Chinese native preachers in the face of persecution, display heroic devotion. The memorial concluded by asking " that the Christian sentiment of our land be not wholly ignored."

He was not acquainted with the precise number of converts in the Chinese chapel.

Rev. AUGUSTUS W. LOOMIS, a missionary in China from 1844 to 1850, sworn and examined :

On the Pacific coast since September, 1859. Over seventeen years wit- ness was engaged in Chinese missionary work. Four or five different dialects spoken in Canton, the province from which the Chinese come. Largest portion of Chinese immigrants are from the rural districts. Some pay their own passage; some are assisted by relatives; some mortgage their portion of the paternal estate, a corner of the house, a room, or a share of a small farm. Many borrow the money giving heavy interest. In early times some had wages and outfit advanced with an agreement that the capitalists should share equally in profits and losses of their mining adven- tures for a specified number of years. Of late years, many have come here under labor contracts. All Chinese male immigrants are free, but women have been decoyed, or kidnapped, or bought, and then brought here for the vilest purposes where their price is much advanced. Many have been pur- chased as secondary wives. Of late the Chinese are bringing their first wives here, and many spoke of going home for their families.

All intend to return home, but of late some talk of abandoning their purpose of returning.

The Six Companies commercial guilds ; they also partake of the charac- ter of benefit societies.

A Chinaman who is insolvent or suspected of a desire to defraud his creditors will not be allowed to return to China.

Each of the Six Companies have large rooms to which the immigrants are allowed to go until they find employment. These buildings are like the car- avansaries of the East. The initiation fee is from $5 to $8, and bone- money from $2 to $8. Special assessments are made, as for instance, for the purpose of employing lawyers.

On the farm, in the house, in the factory, the Chinese immigrant finds employment. Very many of those who arrive, come to take the places of brothers, cousins, or friends who will return to China as soon as they have taught the new comer his business as servant, laborer, or factory hand. Thus the Chinese population is not to be judged by the arrivals, because the number returning is very great.

As to the morals of the Chinese immigrants, they come mostly from the rural farming districts, a large proportion being vigorous and enterprising young men, and very many mere boys, who are all taught to be honest, industrious, obedient to parents, superiors and magistrates ; to be kind to the sick and poor ; to fear the gods ; but like other races their practice sometimes falls beneath their knowledge. Of all heathen nations the Chinese are outwardly the most correct and thrifty, and as a body in California they are in the main a quiet, inoffensive, docile people. There are gamblers, opium-smokers, pimps, idlers and thieves among them. It had been reported that gambling houses and brothels had brought immu- nity by regular payments to certain officials.

Without Chinese labor many manufacturing enterprises would not have been started.

.

Railroads, wagon roads, dykes, all more advanced, and there are more houses and more white people than there would have been had there been no Chinese labor. Without it the crops could not be saved in season. The Chinese importations stimulated commerce ; they paid a large pro- portion of customs duties ; supported insurance, gas and water companies, and paid city, county, state and poll-taxes, internal revenue and licenses.

The Chinese had improved portions of California, which but for thena would still be unimproved.

LOOMIS

Chinese prostitution as well as other prostitution could be expunged, Prostitution. and they could be got to live in more roomy quarters.

They have been made to pay discriminating taxes, yet their children are excluded from the public schools. Their sick are not received into. the hospitals without paying a specified rate per week, $3 it used to be. They cannot vote. A Chinaman showed him three "tax-receipts" : poll- tax, $2 ; hospital-tax, $1 ; road poll-tax, $4.

Many Chinese immigrants have contracted prodigal and vicious habits Chinese immi- and gone to ruin. But the general effect on the Chinese good. The whole of China will benefit thereby, and this will benefit the world.

grants benefited and thus the whole of China would be benefited.

Two hundred and forty-six members of churches.

Chinese immigration regulated by the law of demand and supply.

They have been afraid to buy real estate. They pay very heavy rents, and lease for a term, usually from twenty to twenty-five years. Only a few had applied to be allowed to become American citizens. At home they show a good deal of religious toleration.

With precautions, such as seeing that every immigrant understood and was in sympathy with American institutions before being allowed to vote, they would make good citizens. Many boys now growing up would be entitled, on coming of age, to vote ; yet they were excluded from the public schools. But the Christian schools, voluntarily supported, were doing the work.

Most Chinese women originally brought to California for bad purposes. Women. Some of these stolen; some decoyed on promise of marriage; some sold by poor parents on the assurance that they would be trained up as adopted daughters, many however have become either secondary wives, or regularly married. More merchants than formerly are bringing their wives to Cali- fornia.

Only four or five instances had occurred of Chinamen having white wives, and in each case the wife had been brought from some other place.

The conduct of white prostitutes is more disgusting than anything seen in the Chinese quarter. But the houses occupied by the Chinese prosti- tutes were shut up, whenever the authorities set themselves about it in earnest.

About 300 Chinese in California have been baptized and received into the Christian church. They compare well with other Christians.

If the Chinese were dismissed from all the places where they are now employed, great disturbances in all branches of business would be the result. The manufacturing interests would be seriously affected, if not stopped, and the cultivation of the small fruits, grapes, hop-picking,. potatoe-digging would have to cease or be greatly diminished.

Many had come from the east because Chinese labor was here. This class, the Chinese gone, would cease to come.

Civilized nations bound to communicate its discoveries and revelations to less favored peoples.

Had lived in China for six years. Filthiness not nearly so general in Chinese at home. 5 China as has been represented. Beggars and many poor people in China. Their cities crowded; streets narrow, yet remarkably free from filth. Streets paved with broad flat stones; garbage gathered up and carried off every night to the neighboring fields; the cleanliness of the people, who bathe after the days' work is over and change their apparel, the tidiness of their small apartments, their fondness for flowers, ornaments and singing birds, their refined tastes and courtly manners, have always been a subject of remark and delightful surprise.

Socially the Chinese are superior to any other heathen people. They Socially.

live in families ; the wives are faithful, and the penalty of unfaithfulness may be death. No drunkenness, no rioting, no such shameless exposure by lewd women as on the streets of San Francisco by white prostitutes.

In China there are public schools of a high grade; many supported by the endowments of rich men ; but most are private schools " supported by tuition."

There is a religious sentiment in China which prompts to the support of benevolent institutions and self-sacrifice.

To be a scholar is the highest honor and opens the way to office and advancement.

The classics are taught in the schools, also books of proverbs, and their- early education cannot fail to make them industrious, frugal, as servants or citizens.

There are innumerable little savings and loan societies among them, and many servants in families and boys in our schools are silent partners in some of the large stores.

A deep feeling of dissatisfaction in China on account of what their countrymen have suffered in San Francisco. The queue ordinance is regarded as a national insult. Young Wing, L.L.D., of New Haven College, said to have been appointed Minister from China to the United States, said : " But rights have been violated and we will demand justice." Young Wing, an American citizen.

The intellectual capacity of Chinamen is of a high order.

They have been a benefit to the country, and if double the number were needed, double the number would be of service. If they did no more than to benefit themselves and benefit China, they would benefit us. If they were coming in such crowds as to make California an Asiatic pro- vince, it might be time to make some demonstration on the subject. There are millions of acres which might be cultivated, and which none but Chinese would cultivate. The Chinese would make a garden of those plains between Ogden and Omaha. Those who were buying ranches would make good citizens. The Chinese can be Christianized and their civilization changed.

If the Chinese came in until they were twelve to one American, the Americans would still be the dominant race. He would restrict them. from the ballot.

He thought they could assimilate with Americans by intermarriage.

Americans had a grand mission to train up young Chinamen to go back to civilize their country. No danger that in the contact of the two civil- izations the American would deteriorate.

Chinese less dangerous to American institutions than certain other immigrants.

Mr. Thomas H. King wrong in supposing there are coolies, or that there is a coolie traffic. The Chinese immigrants are free and go and come as they please. Instead of two some five dialects are spoken by them.

Knows nothing of the highbinders, except what he read in the papers, and he did not believe the Six Companies employed such people.

Hundreds of times he had seen the immigrants on their way from the ships maltreated, while police officers took no notice. Never made a complaint. He was wrong in that.

Captain King said the Chinese were inveighled here, but did not prove it.

The Chinese resort to the companies as friends.

A Chinaman could not get himself under any bondage by contracting a gambling debt.

LOOMIS-

The feeling in China towards the republic good, and this valuable from Trade. a commercial point of view. In 1841 and 1842 the Americans took away a great deal of the trade that was in the hands of the English. Not true as Captain King said that the Chinese generally know nothing about the emigration to America. But they have newspapers, their merchants travel extensively, and scholars from all parts of the province assemble at the provincial cities to attend the literary examinations.

Skin diseases amongst them not as generally represented, nor are they more liable to vermin than other peoples.

They smuggle opium. They do not smuggle for brokers.

They come under labor contracts for a term of years.

As a rule they do not dissipate their earnings.

Labor contracts.

Read the Cubic-Air Law as passed by the California Legislature. This Cubie-air law. Act (set out on page 477 of the Report of the Joint Committee) declares " every person who owns leases, lets, or hires " to another, a room or apart- ment within an incorporated city, or county, which contains less than 500 feet of cubic space in the clear for each person or any person or per- sons found sleeping, or lodging, or who lives or uses for sleeping, or lodging, any such room, to be guilty of misdemeanor, and upon conviction, to be punished in the former case by a fine of not less than fifty ($50), nor more than five hundred ($500), or by imprisonment in the county gaol, or by both such fine and imprisonment ; in the latter case by a fine of not less than ten ($10) nor more then fifty ($50) dolllars, or by both fine and im- prisonment. This Act dated April 3rd, 1876, and had been enforced only against Chinese.

The next law was the Foreign Miners' Tax which imposed on foreign miners a tax of $4 a month, and which sometimes went as high as $20. It bore date May 17th, 1861. After a number of years this Act was de- clared unconstitutional. It was never enforced against any class except Chinese, that he heard of.

Under an Act passed by the last Legislature prohibiting the use of nets legislation. with meshes less than certain specified dimensions, only Chinese had been arrested. On the 23rd of April, 1855, an Act was passed that every Chinese immigrant should pay a tax of $55, but it was declared invalid. (The people versus Downer ; VII California Reports, page 169.) An Act (April 26th, 1858) prohibited all persons of the Chinese or Mongolian races from entering the state or landing at any port thereof, unless they should be driven on the coast by storm or unavoidable accident and then they were to be reshipped and returned to the place whence they came. An Act (26th April, 1862) provided that every Mongolian over eighteen years of age should pay a monthly capitation tax of $2.50, except those engaged in the manufacture of sugar, rice, coffee, and tea. This act pronounced invalid. (Ling-Sing versus Washburn ; XX California Reports, page 534.) March 31st, 1866, an Act approved declaring all Chinese houses of ill-fame nuisances. By an Act of March 18th, 1863, Chinese and Mongolians were not allowed to be witnesses in an action wherein a white person was party. This afterwards repealed. By an Act (April 3rd, 1876.) the Board of Supervisors of San Francisco were empowered to appropriate a sum not to exceed $5,000 to be used in defraying the expenses of a delegation to Washington, to solicit such action on the part of the Federal Government as should modify the Burlingame Treaty, so as to prevent the immigration of certain classes of Chinese under its provisions, whose arrival in our midst is detrimental to the moral and material interests of our own people.

A city ordinance approved March 15th, 1876, provided that all laundries

Foreign miners' tax.

Discriminating Nets with meshes of a certain size.

282

should pay licenses : using a one horse vehicle $2, per quarter ; two horses, $4 per quarter ; no vehicle, $15 ; that was afterwards declared invalid.

City ordinance (June 14th, 1876) provides that every male prisoner imprisoned in the county gaol of San Francisco, under a judgment from the police court, should have his hair cut or clipped to a uniform length of one inch and this was acknowledged by the officers to apply to the Chinese.

Sections 2,949 to 2,968 of " The Political Code of California," provided that persons suffering from certain infirmities and having no relatives to support them, or lewd or abandoned women, unless a bond of $500 was given to the people of California to indemnify against possible costs. Un- der these sections several Chinese women were detained and by order of the California Supreme Court sent back to China, but on appeal to the United States Supreme Court this legislation was pronounced unconstitu- tional and void.

From statistics obtained from the clerk of the revenue department it will be observed that a Chinese tobacco-dealers' license for a single store is $5, and the number of dealers 200; tobacco-manufactories, 70 ; license for factory, $10 ; the whole amount of stamps sold for cigars manufac- tured in this district, $500; number of Chinese dealers in leaf tobacco, 20 ; license per dealer, $25; Chinese who sell liquor, 50 ; license, $25 per dealer. The whole amount received for duties at the custom house for year ending 1875 was $8,000,000 ; the approximate amount paid by Chinese would be $2,500,000 directly in their trade. Their property (according to the assessor) assessed here, is $250,000-real estate ; others give it as $600,000. The personal property-tax is given as $500,000 ; and the poll-tax collected was $30,000 up to July Ist. Only Chinese pay the foreign miners' license-tax. The poll-tax is collected from the Chinese as they come off the steamer, and also on their de- parture.

There are very few Chinese beggars in San Francisco : you may see one once in a while.

The hukahs are a class of people in China who were regarded as coming from another province. Hukah means stranger. Some of them are here ; one of the Fuh Kien company-houses belongs to them. As a class they are as respectable as the others-industrious and economical. The Six Companies do not import Chinese here for labor purposes ; neither do they make contracts hiring labor out ; nor receive the money of the Chinese for labor performed.

With the exception of paying a fee of $20 to the companies a China- man is as free to leave the state as a white man. A white man can leave the state owing debts, but a Chinaman cannot well do so.

In many instances the Chinese are badly treated, and I think the majority of citizens disapprove of it very strongly. It is limited to a low class, and those connected with labor institutions.

The information as to the collection of the poll-tax was derived from captains and officers of the steamships.

Respecting the $500,000 personal property-tax, I am not quite clear whether it is the amount paid in as taxes, or whether it is the assessed value of property.

FRANCIS

Rev. JOHN FRANCIS, Baptist, five years in charge of a mission school, sworn and examined :

The mission has about 100 pupils and six teachers. In regard to con- Chinese converts. sistency, Christian deportment, and steadfastness, they compare favorably with converts of other nationalities. None of our converts, as far as I know, have returned to heathenism ; fifteen have been baptized in con- nection with this mission, their ages ranging from seventeen to twenty-five. The pupils are instructed in the English language until they can read the New Testament. The ages of those who are instructed range from ten to twenty-five.

The Chinese are just like other people ; I cannot perceive any difference Chinese just like at all. All our young, with very few exceptions, have proved themselves other people. to be honorable, just, reasonable, and honest in their character and in their dealings with us. Our converts are in demand in photographic gal- leries. Pecuniary aid would extend the sphere of usefulness of these schools. I am not aware of any converts cutting off their queues ; as far as I understand, it is simply a national badge. I think the Chinamen understand that they are sought for on account of their Christian profession.

Our work would be greatly facilitated if the Chinese were permitted to attend our schools and get an English education.

It is possible that some Chinese become Christians through niercenary motives.

A very large proportion of the Chinese population here are under twenty-one years of age.

[Mr. GIBSON here stated that probably one-third of the population were under twenty-one, and a large proportion of the whole under thirty.]

SAN FRANCISCO, November 11th, 1876.

JOSEPH A. COOLIDGE, Secretary of the Merchants' Exchange, and a COOLIDGE. resident for twenty-seven years, sworn and examined :

There are seven Chinese firms as stockholders and twenty-four as sub- Character of Chi- scribers to the Exchange. The subscribers can be seen daily in the room nese merchants. and on 'Change during the hour. They are intelligent, shrewd, courteous and gentlemanly ; honorable in their business transactions, and compare favorably with people of any other nationality. I have been informed by merchants who have had extensive business transactions with them that the usual contracts in writing were unnecessary, their word being a suffi- cient guarantee for their fulfilment ; and in a term of years, in which business to the extent of millions of dollars was transacted, not one cent "has been lost by bad faith on their part. I have never been acquainted with Chinamen in any station of life who could not read and write in their own language. In cleanliness of person they are remarkable. I have observed them closely in their various occupations and on the streets, and cannot call to mind an instance of dirty face or hands, or of soiled garments. 'Their habitations, however, are filthy. They are industrious and frugal, and unassuming in their demeanor. We do not hear them about the streets making night hideous with unearthly yells and screaming, as is the case with very many who consider themselves their superiors. "Through the prejudice that exists against them many are arrested for

Persons clean but habitations filthy.

COOLIDGE

crimes which, if committed by what is called a white man, would pass un- noticed ; and our court records show a larger proportion of Chinese arrests than if the laws were impartially executed. The same prejudice existed at one time against Irish immigration, the results of which are before the country. The results of Chinese immigration are to be proved. If the greater portion of the Chinese now here are of the lowest order of If the Chinese here their countrymen, it speaks volumes in favor of Chinese civilization, and are of the lowest orderit speaks vol- a strong inducement to encourage a larger immigration of the better umes for their civ- classes.

ilization. .

On 'Change they are treated the same as the people of any other nation. My experience among them has not been very extensive as to testing their education.

I have known people of other nationalities who have really not been citizens who wanted positions on the police force and on public works, but I have never known the Chinese to want them.

I would consider the unrestricted immigration of Chinese as desirable as that from any other nation, but not as desirable as unrestricted immi- gration from New England and old England. If a conflict of interests should arise between European and Chinese immigrants, I think I should favor the former, because their civilization is mine. The Chinese civiliza- tion is different, but it is, I think, a debatable question whether their civilization is not as good as ours.

A debatable ques- tion whether the Chinese civiliza- tion is not as good as ours.

So far as investing them with the elective privilege, I think it could be conferred upon them as well as a great many that it is conferred upon- I refer to all ignorant foreign populations, as well as the ignorant Ameri- can population-and might just as well be conferred upon them as upon the freedinen of the south. In other words, I put the Chinese in all respects-in their morals and civilization, and in the desirableness of their immigration-upon the same plane as other foreigners of the same degree.

I do not think the entire European immigration is equal to the number of Chinese.

Comparisons bet- ween Chinese and other immigrants.

The Chinese in business compare favorably with European immigrants who are in business as merchants and manufacturers, and for capacity and integrity I think they have no superior. By segregating the classes, I do not think they are equal to the average of the Germans, who, I think, are superior to any immigrants that come here. The Chinese are the equals of the French and superior to the Italians and the Irish-in fact superior to every class of European immigrants except the Germans-in morals and everything else. I do not know anything about the Scandinavians or the Welsh.

The Chinese occupy very dirty quarters ; I do not think it is the same with other foreign citizens here. In decencies and comforts other nation- alities are superior.

Religion.

I do not question a man's belief. My idea of a good citizen is, if he lives a good, honest, square life he is as good a man as the greatest pro- fessor of religion or church member. I do not know what their belief is, but I have been told by some of them that they believe in a God, and their worship is similar to that of the Catholic worship. I have heard that they have images in their Joss-houses of one kind and another. If the Chinese believe in devils and have a superstitious fetish worship, I do not see that they are much different from what we call white men, for they all believe in them in some shape or another.

I cannot see that there is any advantage in restricting the immigration of the Chinese nor any need of legislation in addition to that which we. have.

I think the hoodlums of this city are of no particular class or nation- ality-except that they are not Chinese. The cause of their existence here is, I think, want of government by the parents of the young men. They are allowed a great latitude here. At night you can see children of six or seven years of age around this city until two o'clock in the morning. One cause of hoodlumism is the want of sufficient clerkships to go around, and because the unemployed are unwilling to take positions as artisans or laborers.

The Chinese are employed because their labor is cheaper ; and that Employed because being the case, it closes an opening for young men to get employment, their labor is cheaper.

compelling them to seek clerical and other positions which Chinese do not fill.

SOLOMON HEYDENFELDT, a resident for twenty-seven years, at one time HEYDEN- Associate Justice of the Supreme Court, sworn and examined : FELDT.

California owes its prosperity very much indeed to the industry of the Chinese who have come to this country. Their advent here has conduced to bring white people, giving them homes and employment. The Southern Pacific Railway would not have been built but for the The bestlaboring Chinese. I think they are the best laboring class we have among us. class.

The reclamation of tide-lands was considered a hazardous thing to Tide-lands undertake. Capital was rather diffident in taking hold of it. There has reclaimed. been a large area of these lands reclaimed by Chinese labor. I do not think there is any surplus labor in the state; there is employment enough for everybody.

The present success in manufacturing, except foundries, is owing to the Success in manu- Chinese. Our farming interests would not have been so far in advance but for them. facturing owing to Chinese.

In my opinion, there is no prejudice against the Chinese on the part of

Prejudice against Chinese confined to foreign-born native-born Americans, unless it is politicians-probably office-seekers. I believe the great prejudice against them originate among the foreign- citizens. born citizens. I think it is confined to a class.

I find Chinamen employed everywhere where I have been on this coast. Good servants. As domestic servants, I have heard nothing to their disadvantage. As far as concerns their industry, and frugality, and fidelity, and general in- telligence, and their cleanliness, I think those who have been in the habit of employing them and know something about them place them above the corresponding class of other people.

I am not in favor of the immigration of anybody to the United States. I think we have people enough for production and for progress ; but if people will come I think it is as much to our advantage to have Chinese as any other people. I do not see how a limit could be fixed upon this immigration. If it should be attempted by legislation I think it would be an infraction of the treaty, and the Chinese would regard it as a breach of faith.

As to the impartiality of the legislation of this state as between Chinese Discriminating and other immigrants, there have been some ordinances probably of the Legislation. city which, while general in their character, have been aimed more partic- ularly at the Chinese on account of their peculiar habits, customs, etc. There was a tax imposed upon all foreign passengers coming here in vessels. That was probably intended for the Chinese. It was a general law.

HEYDENFELDT

The government has, unquestionably, the power of preventing immigra- tion of any kind that would be injurious to our people.

If large numbers of Chinese came they would adopt American civiliza- tion.

Unrestricted immigration of any sort is not desirable. Unlimited immi- gration of the Chinese would not, I think, have any bad effect upon the morals of the people. The Chinese, who are an imitative and progressive race and learn very rapidly, would conform themselves to our habits, our views, and our ideas. They would adopt our civilization instead of drag- ging us into a semi-barbarous civilization.

There is no parallel between the condition of this state to-day and that of Virginia 200 years ago.

Chinese equal in European families are not a particle better than the people who come all respects to the from China. The Chinese are equal in all respects, in civilization and pean immigrants. morals, to the negroes and European immigrants. I do not see why the negroes and Euro- franchise should not be given to the Chinese. I think they would make very valuable citizens, and if they had a chance they would very soon acquire our language and become identified with us.

I do not see why the Chinese should not intermarry. I think China- men would make better husbands than usually fall to the lot of our poor girls.

When slavery existed I was in favor of it, and in favor of keeping it. might not prove a It has been observed that in the crossing of races between the African and the white that such an admixture has a tendency to die out. Whether that would be the case with intercommunication between the Chinese and our race I do not know. That would have to be tested by experience alone. There are more points of similarity, however, between us and the Chinese than there are between us and the negro. Such an excess as 8,000,000 Chinamen to 1,000,000 whites upon this coast might breed harm.

Taking the classes of immigrants that we have here, in morality and behavior, the Chinese are something better. I think they are more faith- ful, more reliable, and more intelligent, and have more industry than the corresponding class of whites. The merchants have an exceedingly good reputation here, especially the higher class. If the law was altered so as to admit them to citizenship, I think a good many would accept it, and be willing to undertake the duties of a citizen, and it would increase the tendency to assimilation. If the Chinese were allowed to vote, a great many whites, probably, would coalesce with Chinese who now avoid them. They understand substantially the first element of our institutions, that all men are equal before the law.

There are contractors among them for large works, and they show a great deal of executive ability.

I think their general intelligence is greater than that of Americans in the same corresponding class. My impression is that there are very few Chinamen of the ordinary laboring class who cannot read and write their own language. I find them quick to understand and quick to appreciate.

In engaging them as servants for the various employments they seemed to act for themselves, and consult their own pleasure, and leave without asking anybody.

WHEELER

ALFRED WHEELER, attorney-at-law, and a resident of the state for twenty-seven years, sworn and examined :

I am a real estate owner, and have been engaged in farming and mining. I own several thousand acres of land.

As to the numbers of Chinese in California, there would probably be, in my opinion, 90,000 within the state proper, or rather on this coast. They all come here, and spread in every direction. They go to Nevada, Utah, and some of them have gone east. There may be a few arrivals at the northern ports in British Columbia and Oregon, but none at any other ports in California.

Upon the subject of immense immigration, I think we take unnecessary alarm. There is always a proportion betwixt supply and demand. Com- Thefear regarding merce regulates immigration as well almost as the demand for labor does, a too large immi- If we have less than 100,000 in the state after twenty-five years' immi- less. gration ground- gration, in the same proportion it will take 250 years for 1,000,000 to come here.

The books of the custom-house would now show the number of arrivals, because they have kept a record more carefully than they did in early days. I do not think there is any other record that would show the arrivals from the beginning except the Commercial Herald, from which I gathered statistics enabling me to compute the departures and arrivals from 1853 to 1873. The total arrivals up to 1873 were 135,399, and the Arrivals and de- total departures, 60,909, leaving an actual gain in the state of 74,400 partures. Chinamen. These figures have been published and have never been controverted. A great many that return to China come back a second time.

I think that the immigration of the Chinese has been vastly beneficial to the growth of California, and it is greatly beneficial to every white man, woman and child in the state. The white laborers of the state are vastly benefited by that immigration instead of hurt by it. The presence of the Chinese has greatly increased the demand for white labor. I do not see that there is any plethora of labor. There are certain seasons of the year, during the gathering of the harvest, when we must have an im- mense amount of labor, but that is only temporary. For that reason we require a class of labor in that season of the year which must be idle the rest of the time.

As to the presence of the Chinese depriving white men of their labor, I Useful to white may instance the building of the Central Pacific Railway. If it had not labor. been for the 5,000 or 10,000 Chinamen who were employed in building that road, there would not have been a demand for the ties, which were made by white labor ; for the bridges and culverts, made by white labor ; for the railroad iron, the cars, the engines-every branch of business which followed, all being done by white labor ; and now the road is run and car- ried on by white men, furnishing a field for white labor. Then, by laying a foundation for that superstructure by means of Chinese labor, there is a door open for white men always. The same thing applies to any other branch of business in the state. Before the advent of the Chinese here we imported mostly from Massachusetts, and our money went out of the state to contribute to the manufacturers of the east ; and every man paid 100 per cent. more for the boots and shoes that he wore and the blankets that he used than he pays to-day. The 750,000 or 1,000,000 men in California must pay the 500 or 1,000 shoe-makers in the state double price for boots and shoes or pay it to Massachusetts, or let the boots and shoes be manufactured by cheaper labor, in which case the greatest good is

WHEELER

done to the greatest number. In addition to that, by encouraging the manufacture of boots and shoes in this state we give use for our own leather ; we encourage our own tanneries ; we encourage the raising and production of hides. In our woolen mills it is the same. We give encouragement to the production of wool; we use white labor in carry- ing on the industry in every way, except in the single manipulation White labor gets of the wool by Chinese. The white laborer is able to get everything he buys cheaper to-day because the Chinese are here; and every man who lives in the state to-day would have to pay twice as much for living if we had no Chinese. The same is true of the food he eats, the luxuries of life, the various melons and fruit of every sort. The white man gets his flour cheap because we have cheap labor to raise wheat ; he gets his boots, shoes, and clothing cheap because these are made here by cheap labor. In fact the white laborer of California has got the most blessed spot in the Union in which to live, and live well and cheaply.

General and moral character good.

As to their general morality and behavior I have found them a pacific, mild, and gentle people. Those who have been in my employ as domestic servants I have always found extremely subordinate and respectful, quiet, attentive, and rather avoiding difficulties than seeking them. They are conscious of the prejudice existing against them. The children of the community are disposed to pelt them with stones, and they avoid the opportunity. I never saw them provoke anyone.

Those who have had them in their employ have always given the high- est endorsement of them as an industrious, hard-working people; and also as being expert, ingenious, and capable men in all the branches of business in which they are placed.

Looking at the question in a pure- ly material aspect

been advantage- ous.

Leaving out the question of the homogeneity of the two races, and the undesirability of having a race among us that cannot become homogeneous, and looking at it only in a material aspect as to whether it is beneficial to the industries, prosperity and wealth of the country, I consider that the Chinese immigration is advantageous.

If our laws permitted them to become citizens, the experiment of their assimilating with us would be more easily tested. One of the greatest prejudices now existing against the Chinese, probably, independent of their rivalry as laborers to certain classes, is that their dress and manners are peculiar, and that they retain those individual characteristics which make them obnoxious. The Japanese come here and dress as we do.

Bright workmen. Trustworthy traders. Arrivals and de- partures.

As workmen they are very bright and intelligent ; as tradesmen they are exceedingly sharp men of business and true to their obligations.

For the six years up to 1875 there were 212,000 arrivals of passengers over departures. There was a gain in 1875 of 44,937, and by sea of 21,000, making 65,000 in all for the year.

If labor east is less in price than Chinese in California then their presence would not check white immi- gration westward.

I have seen it stated that the prices of labor east are less than the prices paid for Chinese labor her, consequently I cannot understand that the Chinese labor in this state would prevent the influx of eastern labor. Immigration from the east has been very much on the increase since the completion of the Pacific Railway. Up to the present season Both Chinese and the Chinese immigration has increased in the last three years, just as the whiteimmigration white immigration has been greater than it ever has been before.

on the increase.

It is a very difficult matter to find white servants willing to go to the country.

If it costs $60 for an immigrant to come from Chicago and $30 to come from Hong Kong, I do not know that the possibilities of immigration are greater from China than from the east. The Chinaman comes here to get work in the harvest season chiefly ; we know that they go back ; we

· things cheaper. be- cause the Chinese are here.

WHEELER

see by the statistics that almost as many go back as come here. The im- As the white im- migrant that comes from the east of the Rocky Mountains comes to remain he is sure- migrant comes to remain, to become a permanent citizen, and in that respect he is more ly the most desir- able. desirah's than the Chinese. I have always considered that a white im- migrant, all things else being considered, is far better for us than a Chinese immigrant.

It is possible that 400 ships could bring 1,000,000 Chinamen here in a year.

The railways throughout America and Europe have been built by white labor ; but there has never been any part of the world where the wages of white labor were so high as in California. There may have been individual cases where a demand was made on the Central Pacific Railway on the part of white labor, and there may have been white labor that could have White labor could been obtained. By the payment of sufficient prices they could have obtained at a suffi- have been obtained 10,000 white men to do anything. Before the company started to cient price. build the Central Pacific they had, probably, only $100,000 or $200,000 Better that the among them ; it is now said that each individual member of the company should have been enormous profits is enormously rich. It would have been better for the state if part of distributed. that enormous wealth had been distributed among the many.

Immigrants might have been brought here by Panama for $75 per capita.

Chinese immigration makes the country richer, and makes the poorer Chinese immigra- classes more comfortable and richer. If I thought that it had a tendency tion makes the poorer class more . to make the rich richer and the poor poorer, I should be very much averse comfortable. to speaking in favor of the immigration of such a people.

Chinese cheap labor comes in competition and rivalry with the boot and Competition with shoe trade of Massachusetts, lessening the demand for those articles there, makers. white shoe- and cutting off their export; and it would fail to increase the demand for labor to the extent that California was a customer. If there were 100,000 white shoe-makers in the whole of the United States the importa- tion of 100,000 Chinese shoe-makers to take that labor would injure the white labor, but it would benefit the 40,000,000 of people who wear shoes. The direct effect would be to drive the white laborers out of em- ployment. The same with regard to the manufacture of woolen goods and cigars. The displaced labor would necessarily have to seek new avenues for employment. All things being equal, I would prefer to see the white race advanced in material prosperity, as well as in morals and civilization.

So far as a Chinaman displaces a white man who now has work, it is a The disadvantage disadvantage and an inconvenience to the individual man. The query is, ment of white of the displace- whether the many are not benefited more than the one inconvenienced ? labor discussed. The advantage to the million of population of the state is more to be con- sidered than the advantage to any one particular class of laborers in the community. The only benefit that could be derived by the people of the state by Chinamen displacing white labor would be in the lessened cost to them of articles they buy. If every avenue of labor should be filled with ·Chinese it would do a very great injury.

The table already referred to respecting arrivals and departures gives Arrivals and de- in 1854, 16,000 arrivals ; in 1855 there was a loss of Chinese in the state ; partures of Chi- nese. and in 1856 the arrivals were 4,800; in 1857, 5,900; the next year, 3,500 ; the next, 3,100 ; the next, 3,000 ; then the number was 2,000 ; in 1865, 3,000 ; in 1866, 2,200 ; in 1867, 4,200 ; then in 1868, 1869, and 1870 the arrivals were 11,000, 15,000, and 11,000 ; then they fell off to 5,000 again. Those were the years just about the time of the completion of the Central Pacific Railway. The largest excess of arrivals over

19

-

WHEELER

departures of late years was in 1869-10,000. In 1854 there was a gain of 13,754 ; in 1869 there was a gain of 10,000. In five years there was a loss, and in the others the gains amounted to 1,700, 4,800, 3,400, 700, 6,800, and then that year, 1869, 10,000. Then, in 1870 there was a gain of 6,800; in 1871, 2,000; in 1872, 4,000; and in 1873, first quarter, 2,000.

Building of other roads by Southern Pacific and Cen- tral Pacific have caused the in- I think that the demands for labor that have existed in this state since then during the building of other railroads by the Southern Pacific and Central Pacific have caused the increased immigration from China which creased immigra- has taken place in the last four years. In the years 1869 and 1870, tion from China. which were the years of the completion of the Central Pacific, there was the largest immigration and the largest gain of the immigrants over emigrants.

The growth of the shoe industry has been brought about by Chinese labor.

Chinese absorb all the industries they can.

·The Chinese, no doubt, would absorb the box-making business if they could ; they absorb all industries they can. The more labor there is the greater is the production.

Number of Chi- nese in the United States.

On being recalled, witness said : The total arrivals of Chinese from 1848 to October 1st, 1876, as shown by the San Francisco custom house records, and the estimate of the State Senate Commitee, were 233,136 ; the departures, 93,273 ; leaving a net gain by sea of 139,863. The depar- tures inland to other states and east of the Rocky Mountains cannot be less. than 20,000 ; and the death-rate at two per cent. would be 29,900. Deducting these from the net gain by sea, leaves the present Chinese population of California, 93,693, or 113,000 in the United States.

GIBBS.

CORNELIUS B. S. GIBBS, adjuster of marine losses, and a resident of twenty-eight years, sworn and examined .

High quality and ch nese businessmen.

As men of business, I consider that the Chinese merchants are fully of Chi- equal to our merchants ; as men of integrity, I have never met a more honorable, high-minded, correct and truthful set of men than the Chinese merchants of our city. I have never had a case where the Chinese have attempted to undervalue their goods or bring fictitious claims into their adjustments. Chinese merchants as a class, I think, are more honorable than other nationalities, even our own. I think they are the best mathe- maticians I ever saw in my life. They would make good citizens. I do not think there are over 2,000 merchants in the city. They understand the principles of insurance. I never had a law-suit with them, or ever had a complaint from them in my life.

Chinese scent abouttheirhouses.

I visit these merchants at their homes. Their houses are as cleanly as the houses of American merchants ; they do not smell as well, because there is a Chinese scent about all their houses. For cleanliness, the houses of Chi-Long and Qui-Nong-Chong, on Sacramento street, are as cleanly as the house of any member of the firm of Macondry & Co., or the house of Mr. Hecht, or of any other American or foreign merchant here. Their accommodations are not as ample. I have never seen their sleeping apartments. I never saw a Chinese wife ; I have seen their children.

HEYNEMANN

HERMAN HEYNEMANN, merchant and manufacturer, sworn and examined :

I have been fifteen years in business, importing goods, and am president of the Pioneer Woolen Factory and the agent of the Pacific Jute Manufac- turing Company.

Our manufacturing here is entirely for our own use ; we are not able to Woolens: compete with Europe yet so as to export. We consume about 2,000,000 pounds of wool here, and we export 38,000,000 pounds. There are $1,000,000 invested in the Mission and Pioneer Woolen Mills. The Pacific Rolling Mill is the only establishment that could compare at all with ours. In the two mills we employ about 600 operatives-not all Chinese.

Testimony has been given here of late to the effect that a good many white laborers have been displaced by Chinese. The contrary has been taking place in our factory ; white girls have taken the place of Chinese. Origin- White girls in wit- ally it would have been an absolute impossibility to have run the factory displaced Chinese .. ness's factory have upon white labor, simply because we could not get white operatives ; it could not have been started with white labor. As labor is offering in this particular factory every day, the number of white girls is increasing and the proportionate number of Chinese is decreasing. In the course of time, as labor becomes more plentiful here, I have no doubt the Chinese will be displaced altogether, except where they amalgamate so that they really would lose the distinctive name of Chinese. Inherently, I do not believe No inherent differ- there is any difference between the two races at all. ence in race.

We could not displace the Chinese without great disadvantage ; to dis- charge them all would disorganize everything. As operatives they have great power of imitation, but very little power of invention. I do not Chinese imitative, think for generations the Chinaman will ever be the peer of the American not inventive. laborer.

In our factory, during the last fifteen years, we have not had a single Quiet. case before the police court. They all live on the premises ; they have a building there ; and we have not had a case of any kind before the police court of murder, or rows among themselves, or theft upon the proprietors. Not ambitious, not We have thought them very honest. If the Chinaman has enough for his more steady than the whites. daily wants he is satisfied and does not look for more. He is not ambi- tious. They are not more steady than the whites ; as a rule I should think Steadiness not one that steadiness is not one of their virtues at all. of their virtues.

I think this so-called coolie business is a mere trick, a sham, and illu- sion. I do not believe they are any more slaves than any other people, except as a general rule they are very poor in their own country, and have their passage money advanced. Many of them have not been able to repay it all, and thus they are constantly in debt, which hangs over them.

About half our operatives are Chinese, exclusive of the Pacific Jute Fac- tory. There the number is almost entirely Chinese, except the foreman. We tried there to have Scotch help-white girls. We imported them for Imported Scotch that very purpose, but could not keep them a fortnight. They ran away. girls ran away.

There are a good many thieves among the Chinese, just as there are a Thieves. good many thieves among the whites ; probably more, because as a general rule they are poorer.

Establishment of manufactories here has largely increased the work of the whites.

It might be beneficial to the political welfare of the country to place some restriction upon immigration generally, but I do not say it should be done. To place a restriction on Chinese immigration to this coast, and not restrict other immigration, would be a restriction upon the commerce

HEYNEMANN

of California. Their presence here increases the immigration of white labor to this coast, and increases commerce, as well as increasing the value of real estate.

Commerce is our chief element of wealth. Our exports are grain, wool, wine, precious metals ; grain leading everything.

Exportation of sil- ver.

Without the grain trade and the export of grain California would not exist as a state as she does now. The silver sent from here to China is merchandise everywhere, and one of the products of the coast. It is an exchange transaction. It would be very much to our benefit if we could get more money for our silver-if we could establish the bullion market here, so that the price here would regulate London ; because it is certain that we can send silver to China cheaper than they can send it to Lon- don, simply on account of transit. European nations have been in the habit of paying a considerable amount of silver to China. If that money was paid through this port it would undoubtedly be an advantage to us. Silver would be worth more if sent from here to China by English orders.

Supply of Chinese immigrants might exceed the de- mand.

As regards the immigration of the Chinese, I have always thought there were not enough of them here. I rather differ from Mr. Wheeler ; I think the supply sets in after the demand. Suppose there has been a good year in 1875, and the Chinese companies have found employment for all the men who have come here, and that their passage money has been paid back ; the fact of there being plenty of employment for those who came would induce others to come, and when these next arrivals come they may not find any employment at all, which was the case in the early part of this year. The result would be that the immigration would be smaller the next year, and the supply would not come directly upon the demand.

The treatment the Chinese receive in California would naturally have an effect upon our commerce with China.

Every machine invented for economziing labor is a benefit to the poor man.

:Superiority of white workmen.

It is a perfect impossibility for a Chinaman to compete with an Ameri- can artisan. If a Chinaman builds a house he does not employ Chinese. There are three houses on the corner of California and Dupont streets, just built now, and they were all built by white men.

Strangeness of manners and cus- toms the cause of the prejudice -against them.

The cause of the hostility against them is the same that has been pre- valent all over the earth-strangeness of manners. It used to be in England that any man who did not speak English was a " bloody foreigner." Instead of keeping themselves in their peculiar dress, if they were to drink whiskey and patronize the bar-rooms to-day, just like others do, the prejudice would disappear immediately.

tory could not get von without them.

I have no objection, so far as our woolen factory is concerned, to a rea- sonable restriction upon the Chinese coming here ; but I think it would Pacific Jute Fac- be a prejudice generally to our factory. As to the Pacific Jute Factory, it could not go on without Chinese labor, the looms being so much heavier few women can stand to run them. Women run them in Scotland ; but it is very hard work. Before we established this factory on this coast all the bags consumed here came from Scotland. If the tariff did not protect us, our farmers would get these bags cheaply made in Hindostan. We have not asked to have the tariff kept up, except that we introduced the industry, and we found that we could not compete without Chinese labor. If we had no local factory you might have to pay twenty cents for bags.

There are more women regularly employed who earn their living in manufactories now than at the time of the introduction of the " mule." If Chinamen were put into the places of the women employed in these factories all the women would have to starve.

HEYNEMANN

I think there is a choice between Chinese immigration and other foreign immigration. I think the so-called white people the most desirable, but I would as soon have the Chinese than a good many of them. Take .the average class of Germans and the average class of Chinamen who come here, I would prefer the Germans by far. Unrestricted immigration of Chinese would not have a tendency to prevent the immigration of Germans.

A great many Germans are in the anti-coolie leagues. There is just as bitter hatred among the Germans as among any other class of people. Being a native German, I am very much opposed to the prejudice against foreigners. I consider a Chinaman nothing but a foreigner, and put him on the same plane as any other foreigner.

RICHARD G. SNEATH, vice-president and manager of the Merchants' Bank, SNEATH. of the state and a resident for twenty-six years, sworn and examined :

I have dealt a great deal with Chinese, and with the Chinese merchants in this city particularly. I have always found them truthful, honorable, High character of and perfectly reliable in all their business engagements. I have done business men. business with them perhaps to the amount of several millions of dollars. I have never had a single one of them to fail to live up to his contracts. I never lost a dollar by them. I cannot say that much for the white race.

Regarding the advisability of the unrestricted immigration of Chinese to this coast, I am inclined to think that there are not more Chinamen here at present than are really needed, and I think it is a question how than needed, but far this immigration should go. I should say it was a proper subject of power to restrict. there should be legislation to have a general restriction or power to restrict.

I should think that they cannot assimilate and become a portion of our people, nor are they likely to do so. The coming and going of the China- men would not change the relative relation of the two peoples to each other ; they would remain the same general alien people. The younger people learn our language very quickly. The masses do not speak it.

Our civilization is superior to theirs.

Immigrants from Europe and the eastern states, as a class, would be more desirable than the Chinese. As to the influx of the Chinese, as having a tendency to prevent immigration of white labor from the east, I should say that the immigration of whites depended very materially upon their success here ; that is, the wages they receive, their advancement, and all that. Wages are about the same here now that they were ten or fif- teen years ago. As a rule the Chinese do not come here for permanent residence ; foreign and eastern immigrants come here for the purpose of remaining and making their homes here. I think that without Chinamen it would be impossible to develop very many of the material interests of the state. With them I think that our people, perhaps, are better off ; we can progress more rapidly. I do not think it would be desirable to make the Chinese citizens by giving them the franchise.

Among the common Chinese whom I have employed, I have found them to be an industrious people, and, as a general thing, very reliable. In a great many situations I much prefer the Chinese to white labor. Then, again, in farming I employ nearly all white men, for the reason that the In some situations Chinese do not understand farming. They can only be worked in gangs, in farming, whites .. preferred Chinese ;: where they have their own head man. I have paid higher wages to Chinamen than I ever paid to white men-as cooks, for instance.

White people pre- ferable.

Not more Chinese

Civilization ..

Development of the country.

Not desirable to give them the franchise.

To compete with other countries In order to compete with other countries, it is absolutely necessary that must have cheap we should have cheap labor. They have it in other countries, and we must have it here. Then, cheap labor necessarily furnishes a higher order of labor for a better class.

The leading idea with those employing Chinese labor is to make money out of them ; but I know plenty of cases where it is demonstrated by figures that it is impossible to employ white labor. The case I refer to is one of hydraulic mining, where a mine will not pay with white labor, and with the use of Chinese labor they are able to pay expenses and a little more, and hope to make it up eventually. I know of two other men whose experience is the same. The tendency of employing Chinese is to find cheap labor ; it is a question of dollars and cents.

VERNON SEAMAN, five years a resident in China in a mercantile house, sworn and examined :

The exports from China and Japan to the United States of America of teas are from 50,000,000 to 60,000,000 pounds per annum, about one-half coming from each country. Of this about 8,000,000 pounds is sold in San Francisco ; the balance is distributed over the country, in transit through this city and by vessels, direct from China to New York and other northern cities. The better grades of teas pass through this city, and the lower qualities are shipped by sailing vessels because of the economy in freights. To England and the continent about 160,000,000 to 170,000,000 pounds of tea are annually shipped.

The silk trade is largely European, 88,000 bales being the average an- nual shipments to Europe, and some 10,000 bales to America.

The following statistics, compiled from recent China prices current, show the annual exports and imports for the year 1875, the comparative values, etc .:-

From China.

25,000,000 pounds tea, 50c

$12,500,000

5,000 bales silk, $500 ..

2,500,000

12,000,000 pounds sugar, 8c .. . 960,000

50,000,000 pounds rice, 4c .

2,000,000

2,000,000 pounds cassia, 12c ..

240,000

300,000 boxes fire-crackers, $1

300,000

500,000 pounds camphor, 15c 75,000

60,000 bales matting, $4 . 240,000

700 cases straw hats, $40

28,000

2,000 cases fans, $4.

8,000

2,200 cases preserves, $5.

11,000

2,000 cases chinaware, $20 40,000

50 cases vermillion, $40.

2,000

770 cases cassia oil, $110.

84,000

2,200 cases cassia buds, $20

44,000

500 cases aniseed oil, $200

100,000

110 cases aniseed star, $20. 2,200

Opium and sundry

1,000,000

$20,134,200

SEAMAN

To China.

Treasure, about

$ 7,650,000

13,000 barrels flour

650,000

18,000 flasks quicksilver

1,000,000

2,000,000 feet lumber

50,000

15,000 tons coal.

150,000

Sundry (as per Commercial Herald).

1,000,000

$10,500,000

Exports.

From the foregoing it will be seen that we receive from China annually double the amount we send away.

The average arrivals of Chinese in California is about 20,000 per annum, against 80,000 of all other nationalities. Of the foregoing imports, about $5,000,000 worth are consumed in this city and state.

In China the Chinese are a quiet, industrious people ; their merchant Quiet, industrious class being strictly honorable and upright in their dealings. In all my people in China; experience there I never knew but one case of dishonesty in packing teas cheats. in some instances or silks, and that was the placing of scrap-iron between the outside mats and the boxes of a cargo of tea shipped to London. The shipment was condemned and sold at a loss, which loss was promptly paid by the native merchant who originally sold the goods. The wages of a coolie in southern China is from $4 to $6 per month ; in the north about $1 higher. They come here to better their condition. The companies advance their expenses, and they refund the same from the proceeds of their labor. Foreigners in China have very little to complain of. They do about as they please. They have extensive steamer lines on the Yang-tse and Canton rivers, and are largely interested in all branches of trade, insurance, etc.

The Chinese as a people have many peculiarities that are not especially in accord with the ideas of foreigners. Aside from the habit of opium- smoking, which is by no means an universal one, they are not dissipated. Not dissipated. At their annual New Year they drink unlimited quantities of " samshoo," a spirit distilled from rice.

I have seen 100 of them at work making shoes at Sampson's manufac- tory at North Adams, Massachusetts ; 150 doing laundry work at Captain Harvey's steam laundry in Belleville, New Jersey ; and some 500 to 600 on cotton and sugar plantations in Mississippi, Louisiana, and Arkansas ; also have seen them railroad-building in Alabama, and levee-building at and near Baton Rouge. In these various works their employers were Good laborers. satisfied with their labor. In cotton-raising, on the place of Colonel Sessions, at Luna, Arkansas, are employed 100 Chinese and 100 negroes. Each class cultivated one-half of his plantation. The result of the year's work, as he stated to me in 1872, was five and a half bales to the negro hand, and eight bales to each Chinaman. The wages paid them in the south three years ago was $28 per month, and they boarded themselves. Some trouble between the Chinese and planters occurred, but in all cases that I became cognizant of these were caused by the non-payment of wages. Then there were some 1,500 Chinese in the south. They had gone there originally under contract to Koopmanschap, Williams, and others, the most of them for the Alabama and Chattanooga Railroad Company. They completed their work, received no pay, and were fear- fully abused and turned off in the swamps, where they managed to exist on roots, berries, and anything they could get, until they were relieved by

SEAMAN

Not a desirable element for Cali- fornia.

Chin Poo, a very intelligent Chinaman, who had made the tour of the country with me studying this very labor question.

I do not consider them a desirable element for California, by any means. All Chinese can read and write their own language. All male children go to school in China. Females are looked upon in a different light.

Railroading and telegraphing are yet in their infancy in China.

The statistics already quoted, as to arrivals, were taken from the tables of the Merchants' Exchange here.

I know nothing of the massacre at Tien-tsin except from what I have read in the papers. I recollect foreigners taking refuge on board a steamer, but don't know how many were killed. A great many mission- ary women were dishonored and killed. When I spoke of foreigners hav- ing no reason to complain of their treatment in China I was not speaking of missionaries, but those doing business with the merchant class. The missionaries take upon themselves extra risks by going into the interior. Tien-tsin is about 600 miles from Shanghai-a day and a half's drive from Pekin. It is an open port, with a foreign population of about 200.

The statistics of the Pacific Mail Company will give the number of Chinamen who return to China.

The same statistical papers go to the custom house that go to the exchange. The custom house record is the official record. It is their business to know how many Chinese arrive. I believe they collect a cer- tain revenue when they arrive.

PECKHAM. ROBERT F. PECKHAM, woolen manufacturer, and a resident of California for thirty years, sworn and examined :

I was practising law from 1850 until about 1869. Since that time I have been carrying on a woolen mill, at present president and managing agent of the San José Woolen Mills, California,

We employ Chinese, and they are very generally employed by other parties in fruit-raising and hop-raising. They are also employed in washing, as house-servants, and everything of that kind.

When we are running full we employ about twenty white hands in the mill, and eight or ten on the outside, and about sixty-five Chinese. About three-fourths of the expense of running the institution is paid to white labor, and about one-fourth is paid to the Chinese. We employ Chinamen because it is necessary for us to compete in the business. In comparing pay-rolls with several institutions in the east, a year or two since, we found that there was very little difference. At this time they are twenty per Could not carry on cent. under us. With the prices that are demanded for white labor here we with the prices de- could not carry on the business. There are about $3,000,000 of capital his woolen factory manded for white engaged in the business on the Pacific coast, and I suppose they are all in the same fix. We have tried a number of boys, and our experience with them has been that where their parents are with them in the mill, to look after them, we have no trouble. We have several of them from fourteen to eighteen or twenty years of age, to whom we pay wages consider- ably in advance of Chinese. We have tried boys whose parents were not in the mill, and it has been a failure ; they would work a few days and then go off. The white boys and girls, where they are trained and willing to work, are just as good as the Chinese. The Chinese, though, are very industrious people. They are a little crotchety ; they understand how to combine ; they will learn you before you learn them. They all require watching. They are the most powerful imitators that I have ever seen, as.

labor.

Chinese a little crotchety ; can combine.

PECKHAM

a class. I think that a Chinaman will learn to weave as well on a fancy Powerful imita- loom in one month as most American girls would learn in two months, tors. but they do not exhibit any inventive genius. They are conservative. They do not discover any new processes.

Our process of securing Chinese help is through a Chinese merchant in this city, who acts in the capacity of an intelligence office, getting a commissiom from them for procuring their situations. They are bound to him, and they observe their agreement in the utmost good faith. I pay the man who employs them for me.

I have seen but one drunken Chinaman in California. As to their Chinese sober and honesty they will average well with the same classes among other people. honest. In business transactions the percentage of loss between the two races is decidedly in favor of the Chinese.

Whenever we can get a white person, boy, man, or woman, who can perform the duties of a Chinaman, we will give them $5 a month more than we pay the Chinaman. We prefer to give the labor to white people even at a pecuniary sacrifice.

Fruit-raising and agriculture are our two principal productive pursuits. Besides our own institution in San José, there are some tanneries, two establishments for canning and preserving fruit, two machine-shops where they make castings, steam-boilers, steam-engines, and other industries.

White persons can be got for picking fruit if you will pay the wages With no more demanded. At the present time, if there were no Chinamen here and no more white men than now, it would be found that there would be a very short supply of white labor for the business of the Pacific.

If we had not had the cheap labor which the Chinese have afforded us, the industries of the state would not have been developed as much as they have by at least twenty years ; and it has the same effect upon the situation of white laborers, probably, that the invention of labor-saving machinery has. By the employment of Chinese and the consequent develop- Development. ment of industries upon the coast, situations have been made for a great many white people who would not otherwise have found employment. With the wages paid to Chinese labor the white man purchases more of the necessaries of life than I could with my wages in 1849, when I worked for $16 a day. The purchasing power of labor from 1849 to the present time has been increased.

The most of our manufacturing in the state is for domestic use. To a limited extent our woolen products find a market in the east.

White labor on farms here commands from $30 to $40 a month and board ; the value of such labor in the east would range from $18 to $25 and board. Chinese labor here on farms, get about $30, a month and they will board themselves.

Chinese as a general thing are not very muscular, but they are service- able in heavy work. In the fruit business a Chinaman will do as much as a white man. Some white men will do more than others. In my business, there is not room for any great difference between the labor of the two classes. If our Chinamen were taken from us we should close up to-morrow. The reason why we are compelled to have cheaper labor than white is on account of the difficulty of competition with eastern products in this home market. We are trying to substitute white labor for Chinese. We picked up, within the last year, two or three poor women who were willing to work for what we could afford to pay them. They stayed with us, and made first-rate hands, and when we find more of that kind we will employ them. We pay them from twelve and one-half to fifteen per cent. above what we Most would em- ploy white labor pay Chinamen. There are very few men who would not employ white if they could do it. labor, if they could do it, instead of Chinamen.

white men than now and no Chi- nese a short sup- . ply for business of the Pacific.

Comparative va- lue of labor.

The profit upon the capital employed in our business for six years, would not be, I think, over nine per cent. per annum. As to the value of our stock, I bought 100 shares day before yesterday for thirty-eight and one-half cents, but would not sell for that.

Our surplus fruit goes to the east by train loads, but what it brings, or how much profit there is in the business, I do not know.

The tanneries in Santa Cruz county, when I was there, were very extensive, and were not run by Chinese labor.

There are many industries in this state which cannot be carried on successfully with Chinese labor. Cotton is not profitable with Chinese labor in this state, at the present wages ; it is regarded by men most conversant with it as a failure. The raising of olives, the making of olive- oil, the putting up of sardines, the raising of rice, castor-oil, beans, flax- seed for oil, and all those things are in our future. The industries of California are in their infancy. We want cheaper labor than we have, even if done by Chinese ; and as those branches become developed, they will give additional employment to whites.

The money-making facilities of the state and the development of its industries would be increased by the importation of any class of people who can be employed in building up the industries of the country at rates that will command confidence on the part of capitalists, and induce them to put their money into it, be they white or be they Chinese.

The Chinese ought not to become voters ; as a class they do not want to be voters, and we ought not to force suffrage upon them. I see no cause why our institutions should not stand in the presence of a large adult male population here, disproportionate to the whites, who are not allowed to vote.

The result of the stoppage of our factory would be our people would be compelled to purchase wherever they could get the commodities we manu- facture. I do not know that there would be any difference to our people in the cost of buying those articles. Outside of the advantage to the sixty Chinese we employ and the money that our stockholders make, there is some advantage to the state in our producing so much. It lays the balance of the United States under contribution to us to the extent that we ship goods east and sell them ; it makes the balance of the United States, pro tanto, tributary to us instead of our being altogether in their power.

Every article produced by the Chinamen in our own markets, and sold in our own market, such as woolen cloths, clothing, shoes, cigars, slippers, and everything of that kind, necessarily, if sold here, excludes just so many of the same articles of eastern manufacture, and comes into competi- tion with them.

Regarding the propriety of limiting Chinese immigration, I have no objection to it, providing a reasonable restraint is to be placed, but I do not know how that is to be done.

It would be more profitable to use our capital in banking, and loaning it at one per cent. per month compounded.

The production of cotton here has been tried and fully demonstrated, and compares well, both as to quality and quantity to the acre, with that grown in the southern states of the Union.

The industries mentioned as being in the future could all be carried on here, if it were not for the question of labor.

It is better for the United States as a country to manufacture her own goods than to buy them from Europe. What is true of the whole country is true of a state, and it is true of California. It is better for this state to manufacture her own goods even with Chinese labor than to send

299

her products abroad, to buy them in a foreign market, or even to send to Massachusetts.

As to restricting Chinese immigration, I have no fixed opinion. It seems to be the impression among the Chinese themselves that there are too Impression of the many of them here, and that they cannot, under the present state of things, Chinese that there are too many of all get employment. When they are unemployed they become vicious and them. idle, and an American does the same.

The influx of Chinese during the last twenty years has not affected our civilization, nor are we degraded by the presence of these people.

At one time the products of our mines was estimated as high as $50,000,000, and it took nearly all to keep us clothed and get something to eat. We had not much left.

The demand for California cotton at the present time is greater than the supply. Cotton can be imported for fourteen and one-half cents currency ; it cannot be produced in California for less than fourteen and one-half cents or fifteen cents gold.

I do not think that free competition among laborers of good morals and Labor controlled correct habits injures a country any more than free competition in matters of property or merchandise. Everything is controlled by the law of demand and supply, labor as well as anything else ; but there is one limit beyond which labor cannot go : they cannot compel capital to pay them more for their labor than the products of their labor will sell for in the market.

My opinion is that every nation and state is powerful in proportion to the population it supports and supports comfortably, the character of the population having something to do with it.

Rev. WILLIAM W. BRIER, cultivator of fruit, minister of the Presbyterian BRIER. Church, and a resident since 1850, sworn and examined :

So far as the country is concerned, I regard the moral and physical Regards the moral condition of the Chinese laborers better than any other nationality by far. dition of the Chi. and physical con- They are temperate, cleanly, and healthy. In regard to their religious nese laborers bet- ter than any other nationality. condition, I know nothing about it.

The only bondage, the only obligation, they are under is for money ad- vanced for their passage here. They are debtors, and they agree to work so long until that money is paid back. I think that is the only style of bondage that there is among them.

They all come here to make money and then go back. After being here a while they are a good deal like other people; they become attached to the country, and when they go back they want to return. They do not become attached to our institutions and reconciled to live and die here.

The Chinese mostly perform labor that is disconnected with team work; almost every other kind of labor in the world, except in connection with the running of threshing-machines, the Chinamen perform, more particu- larly in the fruit business. I regard the Chinaman as superior to any Superior to any other nationality as laborers in their own departments. At the present as laborers in their other nationality prices it would be impossible to carry on the fruit business with white own departments. labor. The Chinese are more skilful and reliable than white men. They will stay until they learn their business. White men will not do that ; you cannot keep them. If the white man amounts to anything, he will soon acquire enough to start in business for himself. I employ Chinamen because I would not have boys nor girls from the city. If somebody would board them and put them in my orchard to work, I would not have them, from what I know of them. I could not afford it. There is too

by supply and de- mand.

BRIER

much competition to make people who are wide awake to employ boys .. If I undertook to work boys at all, I would take boys from the needy class. It is a matter of necessity that employers and farmers cannot work boys to advantage. In my business I pay Chinamen $1 a day, and they . Chineseanecessity board themselves. I furnish them with a house and wood. At present prices of fruit we could not raise it without Chinese labor. I think the employment of Chinese labor in this department, and all other depart- ments, has kept up the price of white labor.

to fruit-growing.

The immigration of Chinese to this country has been an advantage to the pecuniary interests of the state.

The present rate of white labor has prevailed for about twenty years. Most articles are cheaper now than they were twenty years ago ; clothing is cheaper, meat is higher, and the price of those things manufactured by Chinese has decreased.

Sees no reason for restricting Chi- nese immigration.

I cannot see any reason for restricting Chinese immigration, and I can- not see how it could have any effect upon the moral condition of the white population.

In regard to the employment of white girls as house-servants in the country, I think they cannot possibly be obtained. Catholic girls do not like to go to the country, because they have not got their churches. Be- fore we had any Chinese servants in the house, we had to depend upon Indians and such classes of people. The white girls who go to service are almost all foreign-born-Irish girls and Germans. I have seen but very few American girls going out to service, and these have been in wealthy families, in the higher departments-women to wait at table, housekeepers,. and such like.

Farm wages were from $25 to $35 a month in 1856, 1857, 1858, and along there, before the Central Pacific Railway was built.

I think the wages of women in service have been reduced during the last twenty years ; I suppose there is some competition there. I am in favor of low wages, and of a sufficient profit to carry on the business. The more labor put into our country the more prosperity there will be at large, because we can compete with foreign countries and other states of Capital and labor. the Union. In California they are giving as much as they can afford to give. They will get labor as cheap as they can ; it is human nature. Our cheapening of products and of manufactures, and cheapening them through our own manufactories, has been of great advantage to the laboring class of people. The interests of society require that in the division of the profits made by any business the laborer shall have a decent share. If we cannot compete with foreign countries with the price of labor at a certain figure, I believe it is the interest of the country to reduce the price of labor so that we can compete.

Extreme of Chi- nese population an evil.

I imagine there can be too many Chinamen ; but I do not think there are too many now. My opinion is that if restrictions are to be made in respect to China, they ought to be made upon people who are far worse for us than Chinese. I would trade a certain nationality off for China- men until there was not one left of the stock-in-trade, for I consider some of them an evil. An extreme of Chinese population would be an evil ; but my opinion is that we have not arrived at that extreme yet.

I suppose the object of those who asked for this investigation was to make political capital. They might have had some other motive, but their chief reason was political. I say this from my own convictions ; and in all my acquaintance I do not know a farmer of my district who agrees with me precisely in all these opinions. I do not know a solitary man in Washington township or in Alameda county that disagrees with me in

BRIER

some things : that the Chinese population, so far as it has come here, is a necessity to the farming interests of the country, and that to interfere with it would be a serious mistake. That is the universal opinion in Alameda county, without an exception.

I know that Mr. Page was the author of the law restricting the immi- gration of certain classes of Chinese-prostitutes ; but we believe in restricting that class.

I should not think it would be very good taste in a white woman to marry a Chinaman, nor would it be desirable for the state.

I regard the Chinese very much in the light I do any other thing we Regards the Chi- want to use-horses or machinery. They do a certain kind of work that chine. nese a useful ma- we cannot have done unless by some such labor. I do not wish the «committee to understand that I am for an indiscriminate and universal im- migration of the Chinese ; but I have not seen any reason for any interfer- ence with the present treaty with China. I do not think the immigration ·of Chinese to this coast has interfered with white labor, or will in the future ; or that the number coming here will be so great as to be feared ; but if the time should come when they should begin to be in excess of the demand and of the use that we can put them to, then I should certainly be in favor of breaking up any treaty at all hazards.

[An extract was here read from a letter from Mr. Blakeslee. ]

In speaking of the universal opinion of the people of Alameda county, I referred to those who employed men to work. Mr. Blakeslee is not a man who employs labor. I do not know of any man who employs whites or Chinamen in all my acquaintance in Alameda county who believes that we have too many Chinese. Men who make money out of them believe Not too many Chi- we have not enough, and they are the men who are the best judges. nese.

I believe that God has sent these Chinamen here for a great and good purpose to the human race ; to learn something of our institutions and religion, and by their going back and forth they may diffuse virtue to a great and dark people. That is the chief ground of my opposition to Congress interfering with the present relations with China, or interfering at any time before there is an absolute necessity for it. I do not believe there will ever be any necessity for interfering with them myself.

The Chinese will come only as the demand calls them here. I think Demand and sup- there has never been an over supply, and I do not believe there will be for ply. this reason : the Chinese, in their labor system, differ from all other people, and from our own people. They have companies-the Six Com- panies Most of these Chinese in California are members of these com- panies. Those companies have no absolute control over them, but they are for security-the security of their persons-to take care of them if sick, and to look after them generally and see that they get employment. All these companies appoint certain men to look after the Chinamen in a given district. I know this from the Chinese-from talking with them. Every man who employs Chinamen has one that he calls the boss China- man. When he wants men he just says to the boss: "I want so many more men next week than I have," and that boss obtains the men. He gets a small percentage, I suppose. I know it is the case with my Chinamen. I suppose it is universally the case with the boss Chinaman, who secures employment for other Chinamen, to get a certain percentage of the wages of all the men who work, to reward the boss for his agency in the matter.

I have heard of Chinamen starting in on their own hook, but I never Chinamen do not saw a Chinaman who bought or owned any real estate. I conceive it to invest in real es- tate. be right and proper that Chinamen should have the right to buy real

estate. There is no danger of its being done to any great extent, because most of the Chinese come here to make some money and go back.

There is a great deal worse class of foreigners in our land who have all the rights of citizenship and everything else ; and I do not see any reason why we should exclude the Chinese-it is according to their character and morals that I judge.

The Chinese are a polite people. They are not people easily excited, they are very equable in their temper of mind. They are a cleanly people, keeping themselves neat, clean, and nice, and there is nothing offensive about them. Scarcely any of them ever swear. None of them that I have ever known drink whiskey ; I have never seen but one drunken Chinaman in my residence in California, and that one, I thought, was becoming Americanized. I have never had but one Chinaman come to my house and ask for something to eat, or to ask if I had anything to give him ; and I suppose there are more than 100 fed there of white men of other nationalities every year, from which I infer that Chinamen do not spend their money for whiskey as other nationalities do. If not drunk when they come, they are generally just off a spree. The reason why I judge so harshly of whites and so leniently of Chinamen is because of their man- ners. The whites are begging, and the Chinamen are not ; the Chinamen make their living by work, and the white men drink whiskey and do not make a living. I believe in doing all men of all nations justice.

As to allowing Chinamen to vote, I never would allow any foreigner in the United States to vote until he could read and write and pass an exam- ination on the constitution of the United States and the form of govern- ment we have. When a Chinaman could do that, I would make him a voter if he had not been here more than two weeks. I know quite a num- ber who can read and write in our language, and I would put them on the same footing with all other nations of the earth, and on the same footing as Americans. Independent of any question of making money out of the Chinese, I think I should still be in favor of their unrestricted immigration. I should not like to see our country flooded with either Chinese or European immigration.

The great immigration we have had from Europe in the last sixty or seventy years has been, I think, a great trial to the stability of our insti- tutions. If I could choose between 100,000 German, Swedish, Italian, English, French, Irish, and Scotch immigrants in the same general pro- portion as they come to California now, and 100,000 Chinese from Hong Kong, I would prefer the European ; for this reason : they would be more likely to remain here and become permanent citizens, and more easily moulded into our ideas and thoughts. The second generation would im- prove ; the third generation would be about as good as we are. The ultimate condition of the country under white foreign immigration would be improved by the immigration of 100,000 adult male Chinamen who come here and go away.

Christian civilization is superior to Buddhism and heathenism; it is better in its effects upon the country and the people of the country.

I am in favor of cheap labor. If I could get more with ninety cents a day than with one dollar and twenty cents, it would be better prosperity for my family to get ninety cents.

HASTING

S. CLINTON HASTINGS, a resident since 1849, engaged in general real-estate business, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court on the organiza- tion of the state, sworn and examined :

So far as the material interests of the state are concerned, the influence of the Chinese has been beneficial. The construction of the Central Development Pacific Railroad was the great desideratum for the prosperity of the Country ; but in the construction of lateral roads through our differ- detrimental. ent counties, I think their influence has been detrimental. In that and a moral point of view they are highly detrimental.

The presence of the Chinese, unless they can be driven from the country after a year or two, would be very injurious. At the present time we need them in the businesses in which we employ them. We should have some legislation to restrict them. Their privileges in this country should be no greater than the privileges of our people in China.

As to the question of their assimilation or civilization, I think it would Miscegenation be destruction if miscegenation should be general. We would not pro- pagate.

There is no race of the Aryan or European races, whether it be an Irish- man or a Russian serf, who is not infinitely superior to the Chinaman, in a moral point of view, as a human being.

There is an irrepressible conflict between the white man and the China -. Discourages man when they come in contact. Their presence has a direct tendency to white immigra- tion. boys and girls. discourage white immigration; it demoralizes, also, another branch of Demoralizes our our people-our boys and girls.

Chinese labor has been indispensable in developing some of the resources of California, such as the reclamation of submerged lands. Some China- men are very reliable ; and, perhaps, for steady employment in that low grade of labor, are better than any other race.

We must come to this crisis of excluding the Chinese some time or other. Now is the time. They cannot assimilate with our race, never can miscegenate, and they do not desire to do so.

In erecting buildings white labor is employed ; if they were erected by Chinese labor there would be no tenants. The poor white people of this city will not rent a building of a man who employed Chinamen to erect it. Strong prejudice The prejudice is so great that if there were incendiaries among our labor- classes. of the poorer ing classes it would be a very great incentive for them to fire our build- ings.

The progeny of Chinese and whites cannot procreate, or their off- spring would be so imperfect that perhaps in the majority of offsprings it least undesirable. would be no better than a mule. The offspring of negroes and whites probably would be more prolific but I think it would be imperfect also. There is a great difference between the two.

The present employment of Chinese labor in this country is as detri- As bad as slavery. mental as slavery ever was in the southern states. Chinese labor is a servile caste ; the Chinaman is in a state of peonage. So far as the great A fungus. A servile caste- peons. body-politic is concerned, they are a fungus, a foreign substance, an un- healty substance ; they are not freemen.

You cannot induce a Chinaman to become a citizen. They have no idea Educated China- of the obligations of an oath. The educated Chinaman is very much of a but to Christianize man a gentleman, gentleman. As to Christianizing them that is preposterous. They are fully preposterous. satisfied with their religion.

A peon is a person who in all Spanish countries becomes indebted to his superior, and when so indebted he is obliged to serve him until he dis- charges that obligation. The Chinamen come here as peons, and perform

beneficial, but subsequently

would mean destruction.

A Russian serf superior to thè Chinaman from a moral point of view.

Miscegenation impossible or at

HASTINGS

a certain service to pay for the expense of bringing them here and the expense of taking them home. He belongs to the great companies until the debt is paid. They order him to go here and there ; they see that he is not starved ; they see that he is fed, and that he is employed. Hence it is that you never hear of their people being beggars.

How the Chinese come.

There are a great many immigrants from Europe who borrow money to get here, promising to pay it back out of their wages; but this is differ- ent from the way the Chinese come here. In the case of the European immigrant he has the liberty to say that he will be employed in this or that way, with no one to control his movements. In the other case the Chinaman is under constraint ; he is enslaved to these employers until he pays back the money advanced.

I get my information from a knowledge of the Chinamen for the last twenty-five years. I employ them because they are here and they are cheap. I think they are more faithful than white men. I never heard of such a monstrosity as a Chinese vote. I heard that they voted at the last election in this city.

naman.

I have met leading merchants at a dinner party, which equalled any- thing in splendor I ever knew. No man feels degraded in associating with The educated Chi- cultivated Chinamen. The educated Chinaman is as adverse to assimilat- · ing or affiliating with the Anglo-Saxon race as we are. He has a civiliza- tion of his own kind. As a merchant he is equal to any other merchant, and is equal to any foreigner in the observance of his monetary obligations ; but these high-toned Chinamen are unfit to amalgamate with the Ameri- can race.

We cannot get white household servants in the country, but there are thousands and thousands of them who would go to the country and would become servant girls if it was made as honorable as it is in other countries. Our girls would take to that kind of employment in preference to wander- ing over our streets and falling into a vicious life.

.COLTON.

DAVID D. COLTON, vice-president of the Southern Pacific Railroad, and connected with the Oriental and Occidental Steamship Company, sworn and examined .

On the establishment of the steamship company absolute orders were given that the females should be the wives and daughters of Chinamen coming. The regulation has been enforced.

Southern Pacific would not have been done so quickly without Chinese.

The Southern Pacific was constructed principally by Chinese, the heads of construction being white. It would not have been done as quickly with- out Chinese labor; about seventy-five or eighty per cent. were Chinese. The testimony given by the head of the construction department is very favorable to that class of labor. Two Chinese have been employed in my house, one for seven years and the other five years, and I find them reli- able, industrious and cleanly. I have never seen a Chinaman who could not read and write. They are experts as accountants.

Effect of construc- tion of railroad.

The construction of railroads has been the means of opening up thous- ands of acres of land. Settlements follow the roads; and, as a rule, the lands increase in value from 200 to 1,000 per cent.

White labor not impeded.

Testimony to Chinese.

Chinese labor has been beneficial to the state. The law of supply and demand will govern Chinese immigration. There is not a plethora of labor on the coast. The presence of the Chinese does not retard the settle- ment of the country with white people. Their intellectual ability in the management of business is very good. They are an intellectual people, a thinking people, industrious and frugal.

COLTON

The principal business houses among them have sprung up from very small beginnings compared with what they are now.

I have never seen anything in their presence here that would tend to Do not demoralize .- interfere with the morals of our people. I consider the Chinese, taking them altogether, infinitely more intelligent and better qualified to exercise the right of franchise than the negroes of the south, who can neither read nor write.

If Americans in China were treated in the same way as the Chinese are treated here, the nation would be in favor of wiping China from the face of the earth.

I never saw a drunken Chinaman in my life; they do not have any sprees. First rate laborers .. I have heard of this smoking of opium, but out of 3,000 or 4,000 on the No sprees. road there are no opium-smokers. There is no trouble with them, they are always on hand in the morning. They do a full day's work, and they are certainly the most cleanly laborers we have.

When acting as attorney of an interior county, I applied the foreign miners' license-tax to all who did not declare their intention of becoming citizens.

Chinamen, in Wyoming, do all kinds of work in coal-mining.

They were engaged in tunnels on the Southern Pacific. White men were White men paid never refused work on the road ; they were paid twice as much as the Chinese. They were engaged in teaming, etc. Teaming is a business the Chinese have not taken to.

The moral and political condition of the country is governed, to a cer- tain extent, by the general prosperity of the state.

As a desirable class of immigrants, if the eastern people were industri- Would prefer New ous, I would prefer them as settlers to the Chinese; and if there was any Chinese better Englanders, but way in getting 300,000 families from New England, I would walk bare- than none. footed from here to Chicago to accomplish it. But when we cannot get them, I would rather have the Chinese than none.

DONALD MCLENNAN, connected with the Mission Woolen Mills for sixteen McLENNAN. years, sworn and examined :

The mills were established by Chinese labor, for the reason I could not High character get white labor. I found them very intelligent, sober, and industrious, laborers. of Chinese as and ready to adapt themselves to anything and everything that turned up. I found them equally as intelligent as the same type or class of labor of any other nationality. They would readily do the most intricate and com- plicated work, and in fact learned it in one-third less time than any other class of white labor. They are very imitative and ready, very apt, and can do almost anything you show them how to do, and do it more care- fully than white persons. I never found a case of theft among them.

The large landed estates are a greater evil than the Chinese, and they Large landed keep out a larger number of immigrants.

estates a greater evil than the

The Chinese have added very largely to the wealth and welfare of the Chinese. coast.

We employ 300 Chinese and 300 whites; used to employ from 600 to Development of 800 Chinese. We found a scarcity of Chinese labor, which partly led to country. the substitution of white, and a desire on our part to accommodate our- selves to the wishes of the public.

The Chinese are reliable and a very steady people. I have never seen a drunken Chinaman in my life.

In New England, the very best class of farmers' daughters, well educa-

20

twice as much as Chinese.

ted, bright, and intelligent, work there in the mills, and the Chinamen, I think, are more than their equal in adapting themselves to anything of an intricate kind of work.

We pay our white men from $1.75 to $6 a day; Chinamen we pay ninety cents. White help is more skilled.

One of the advantages of the Chinese is that they are a check on the whites as to striking.

The whites we employ are steady and industrious, and we are gradually substituting them for Chinese, at the same time competing successfully with the eastern market.

The Chinese are not as desirable as our own nationality and Germans. If they were driven out the state would be more than half bankrupt. If they should increase so as to largely outnumber the whites, the effect might not be so favorable as it would be to have so many white people and Euro- peans among us. I do not believe they have materially gained in numbers within the last six years. As the Chinese increase the white population increases also. We have 108 white families averaging five and a half to a family, and 300 Chinese at work. There were 500 or 600 white people getting a living from the fact of our being able to employ so many Chinese. We could not carry on our business without them.

The Chinese are large consumers of the goods manufactured by us.

The work they do is too heavy for white girls. It takes so long to teach them; there are very few you can teach. We want to teach them, but we . cannot afford to do it.

On starting the mill we had to educate the Chinamen to fill these places of employment.

The European, or the New England, or western man is preferable to the Chinaman, because they more readily assimilate with our ways of living, our ways of thinking, and with our religious views, and in all our moral aspects they are like us.

Cotton can be raised here very well. There is not so much this year as in former years; it has not been as remunerative as expected; it is better and stronger cotton, but coarser, and makes a stronger fabric. We us eall we can get, and pay the same price in gold that we would pay for eastern cotton in currency. It cannot be raised here by free white labor any more than fruit. It does not take any more labor to raise cotton than corn, ex- cept the picking and gathering. There is a great demand for it.

HENRY C. BEALS, connected with the Commercial Herald, sworn and examined :

Respecting the manufacture of cordage, Mr. Hiram Tubbs says it is utterly impossible for him to manufacture it without Chinese labor. They had tried white labor and were convinced that the employment of white people was a matter entirely beyond their control. There are two fac- tories : one here and one at Alameda. Almost the entire amount of cordage that is used here is manufactured by ourselves. We receive a little cordage from Manila, but not much. We import the hemp in a raw state.

The imports of cordage in 1871 were12,741 coils and 1,930 packages ; in 1872, 11,337 coils and 2,535 packages ; in 1873, 7,370 coils and 1,766 packages ; in 1874, 5,288 coils and 485 packages; in 1875, 7,238 coils and 874 packages ; which show a large falling off. The consumption of cordage on this coast approximates 6,500,000 pounds per annum.

BEALS

Formerly boots and shoes were brought here from Philadelphia and Boots and shoes Massachusetts, and some from New York ; but since the establishment of from Massachu- our factories the quantity brought has diminished very materially.

The exportation of flour is a growing trade between this port and Flour exported China ; they are very large buyers. They handle a great deal of gin-seng. to China. In 1875 we exported 445,143 barrels of flour, and of this China took 145,555 barrels, a little over one-third.

Within a few years the trade in cigars has entirely changed. Eight Cigar trade. years ago most of the cigars used here were either imported from Manila or Havana ; but now probably two-thirds of all the cigars con- sumed on this coast are made here.

Our commerce with China is increasing every day, and very rapidly. Commerce with The China steamers go out twice a month, crowded to overflowing with goods and merchandise. The Chinese buy and handle more quicksilver, probably, than any other class of people here. Hong Kong is our great market for quicksilver.

It would be bad policy to abrogate treaties, or any portion of treaties, which would tend to retard and cut off this trade. It would be irrepar- able. There are a score or more of Chinese merchants who do a vast amount of trading in buying and selling our own products, such as flour and wheat, and recently barley. There are on an average twenty of them on 'Change every day. They are very gentlemanly in all their intercourse Credit high. with white people; none more so. Their credit is Al.

The ebb and flow of the Chinese is periodical. I do not think, from my own knowledge, that there has been any visible increase of the popula- tion. The increase in extent of the portion of the city occupied by the Chinese does not increase in the same proportion as that occupied by other people. The city is extending with wonderful rapidity, and covers an immense area of ground.

I class the Chinese as one of the labor-saving machines of this country. Chinese classed as

Leaving out the women, who are objectionable, the condition of the Chinese is good. Chinese girls or women have a bad influence upon our of the country. boys -- what we call hoodlums-a greater influence, probably, than any hoodlums. other class of prostitutes.

A white servant girl, in the capacity of nurse, receives from $20 to $25 As servants. a month ; a cook, $30; chambermaids, generally $25 a month. These rates have continued for six or eight years past. Since the agitation of the Chinese question here it has been a very difficult matter for any one to 'hire white help. A good Chinese servant will do twice the work of any white servant-woman you can have here. American-born girls, be they of Irish parentage or otherwise, as a general thing, will not go out to ser- vice. White girls will not go out of town into the interior.

I do not think Chinese immigration has had any material effect upon the white laboring class or with honest labor.

If I could have my way, I would have this country settled with white Would prefer people, most assuredly. They assimilate more to our ways of doing busi- white people. ness. I prefer our government to that of any other.

American or white girls, as a whole, are above the business of going out. They prefer to be educated ; they all want to be ladies ; they want to be considered as such. They do not like to be called servants.

I do not see any necessity for limiting them by restricting their immigration.

one of the labor- saving machines

Prostitutes and

A good Chinese servant will do twice the work of any white servant- woman.

formerly brought setts,

China increasing.

SHERK

SAN FRANCISCO, November 14th, 1876.

JACOB B. SHERK, sworn and examined :

Hop-raising is my principal business, and I employ from 140 to 180, and sometimes as high as 200, Chinese in picking. We have leased our ground for four years more, and if we thought the Chinese were going to be driven Impossible to raise from the country we would not have any use for it. We sell our hops in this hops and compete with eastern markets. market, but they are shipped to all parts of the world. Eastern hops have taken the lead here always, but in the east our hops have a better- demand than theirs. So far as raising hops with white labor it is impos- sible at the present time, and compete with the eastern market.

With white men there would be thieving.

For picking hops I pay $1.20 per 100 pounds ; it would be impossible to get white men. If I should hire 180 white men there would be more or less thieving.

The land rents for $20 an acre ; if sold it might probably be bought for $300 an acre.

One of the five Chinamen I have with me at other seasons of the year hires all the Chinamen who have picked my hops for the last year or two .. When the Chinaman hires by the day I pay him at the rate of $1

Need cheap labor. Chinese at $1 a day not extraordi- narily cheap.

I am in favor of cheap labor so long as we have to compete with foreign markets. I do not consider Chinese' at $1 a day extraordinarily cheap labor. When wages are high, other things are generally high in propor- tion. If commodities are low in proportion, it is not to be supposed that you can get very high wages. The price of labor here affects the price of flour ; it affects the raising of the flour. The amount of grain con- sumed here does not affect the price of wheat in Liverpool, nor does it interfere with the price of flour here to any proportional degree.

Would prefer white men.

I would prefer immigrants from the east to Chinese, because I like- white men better. I would rather pay my money to a white man than to a Chinaman. The immigrants who come from the eastern states are more intelligent generally. They make better citizens, and have a higher civilization ; they come here to make homes and develop the country ; they marry and raise children, and in all these respects are better than Chinamen.

Not in favor of unrestricted immigration of Chinamen.

I am not in favor of unrestricted immigration of Chinese. The Chinese have been a great benefit to our country up to the present time, and I do not think there are too many here. I think every man can get employ- ment if he searches for it.

In one instance the presence of Chinamen interfered with the employ- ment of white men.

SHEARER.

Rev. FREDERIC E. SHEARER, stated clerk of the Presbytery of San Francisco, and the Synod of the Pacific, sworn and examined :

The number of Chinese now in America is about 100,000, The total arrivals from January 1st, 1852, to April 1st, 1876, at San Francisco, were 214,226, and the departures, 90,078 ; and at Astoria, 6,786 arrivals and 1,158 departures.

[The witness here read a paper comparing the estimates of arrivals with the United States census, also respecting the progress made by mission- aries in converting the Chinese to Christianity.]

A panic would be the result of

Some people seem to fear that the country will be overrun by China- limiting immigra- men. If immigration was limited, I believe that all capitalists would tion.

Chinese popula- tion.

SHEARER

fear that the Chinese in the country would be insufficient to meet the demands of labor upon them, and a panic would be the result.

Their habits of life are entirely different from ours. Compared with the laboring classes, their moral and physical condition is better than Character. some others and worse than some others. Their general reputation is favorable for their faithful performance of what they undertake to do. By some people they are treated as other foreigners are, but by the labor- ing classes they are not so treated. In their dealings with men, includ- ing their honesty and integrity, the opinion of the people would be in favor of them.

They come here to make money, but many of them, not a large per- centage, abandon the idea, returning to China permanently. Some are content to die here. Others return to China, and then come back again to the United States. If they were equal before the law and treated as If equal before the other immigrants are treated, many of them would marry and settle down law would marry and settle down like other people. A good deal of the prejudice against them is in conse- like other people. quence of their habits and dressing in an outlandish costume. Quite a num- ber have abandoned their dress and dress like Americans. They have intellectual capacity to understand our constitution and laws. If they were put upon an equality with other people, not more than one-tenth, for a lapse of several years, would become American citizens. There is no danger of any immediate great influx of Chinese to this state, because I Supply of immi- gration regulated regard that supply is regulated by the demands of capital and the necessity by demand. of labor.

Nearly all the Chinese women on the coast are prostitutes. There are Nearly all the Chinese gamblers in towns in the interior.

Chinese women on the coast

There is a society of women in connection with our associations, engaged prostitutes. in the reclamation of prostitutes. About 100 in the last year have been instructed in industrial arts : eighteen in the last year were received into their home for fallen women ; several of them have married and are leading very commendable, and it is believed virtuous, lives with their husbands.

There are three denominations in China : Buddhists, Tauists, and the Religion. followers of Confucius. They have many of the same customs ; their every- day life is the same. They dress in the same general way, except their priests. I think that some priests of one class do not wear the queue ; the people in general wear the queue, which is a native symbol. If they The queue a cut it off they are looked upon as having renounced their nationality. Out of the 246 converts to Christianity I know of two who have sacrificed their queues; if it had been required, I suppose every one would have cut it off.

The gospel teachings of Christ and Christian civilization are superior to the Chinese religion and civilization.

An immigration from New England would be already assimilated in An immigration part, both religiously and politically, and therefore it would be superior to an immigration from Asia. At present I am in favor of unrestricted In favor of unre- immigration.

The Chinese will assimilate as readily as some of the elements now undergoing assimilation.

national symbol.

from New England preferable.

stricted immigra- tion.

STOUT

ARTHUR B. STOUT, physician, a member of the State Board of Health, and a resident of the state since 1849, sworn and examined :

Up to within the last six years I have resided in close proximity to the Chinese-in the midst of their quarter. Iwas among the last to leave.

Chinese men of small stature not muscular, but the As to the physical condition of the Chinese they are men of small stature and not muscular, but the muscle that they have is very virgorous. The are muscle they have witty, quick, and strong for their development. They are what we would is very vigorous. Light weight men capable of great industry. call light-weight men, and as such are capable of great industry and have a capacity for labor which is remarkable. Their health, as a general thing, among similar classes in similar conditions, is better than that of the whites, because the frugality of their lives exposes them less to diseases than parties who are subjected to various excesses.

Their health bet- ter than that of like classes of whites because of the frugality of their lives.

Very few fires which have orig- inated in the Chinese quarter.

Has known of no pestilence.

They eat to live, and are elean, and use much water.

They eat to live and they do not live to eat. They are clean in their habits, and they drink no whiskey. I have never seen a drunken Chinaman in my life. As mechanics or as workmen they keep themselves very clean ; using a great deal more water for ablutions than for cooking purposes. The women are generally cleaner than the same kind of women of other localities and of other races.

Death rate less among Chinese.

The death-rate is greater among the whites than among the Chinese.

As to epidemics, the small-pox has been among them, as it has been among others, but, ratio of population allowed, there has been less among half due to China or Chinamen. Small-pox noteven them than with the whites. The true source of small-pox is threefold. One source is from California, where it has prevailed to a very great extent, and has swept northward, going through San Francisco and other portions of the state. A small ratio, and least of all, has come from China ; and small-pox prevailed to a very serious extent long before any Chinamen came here. In the very early years I recollect sending vaccine to Washing- ton Territory, to the Indian agent there, to vaccinate a tribe of Indians about being destroyed by small-pox. It is engendered here ; it arrives from southern California : and last and least it has come with vessels from China.

The hue and cry made about leprosy is a farce. It is a disease of a past epoch, which can never return again, owing to the different changes of civilization and of life that have occurred. I consider it a curable disease, and I have no idea of its contagiousness by quick contagion. If you were to sleep with a man for six months or a year, be in close contact, get the. scurf from the skin upon you, and breathe his breath for a long time, very likely then you might catch the leprosy ; but it is one of those chronic diseases which, although in that way contagious, need excite no fear ; and it is not near as horrible as other diseases of the skin that we have, such as psoriasis and phthosis.

Their mode of living being different, it makes their hospitals appear very different from ours. They have no beds ; they lay the sick on mats on the floor, which are kept clean. In some cases the mats are not changed, and they are liable to gross negligence. The European hospitals, only a few years ago, were just as much places of carelessness and reckless inhumanity as are theirs. The Chinese have a system of medicine of

Leprosy-the cry about this is a farce.

Hospitals.

Previous to the time of my leaving the Chinese quarter, with the exception of the general conflagration in 1849, and a small portion that was destroyed on Stockton street, there have been no fires of any consequence. There have been very few fires that originated in the Chinese quarter.

During my residence among them I have not known of any disease, any pestilence, originating and spreading there, although they live in their quarters very closely sometimes.

ȘTOUT

their own, and professional physicians. They are but very little educated in anatomy and physiology, with very little knowledge of surgery. The Medical know- Chinese dislike surgical operations. They desire very much to establish ledge.

a general hospital and also a small-pox hospital for their own people, the same as the French and the Germans.

Their treatment of their sick is very variable. The tenderness of Tenderness to those who know one another is not to be surpassed by any people. They sick by friends. would give the utmost care. If some friends will pay they will get pretty good care, if not they will be very much neglected. They desire to take Heard of sick put care of their sick to the best of their ability. I have never seen China- men put out on the street to die, but I have heard of them.

out on street todie, but never saw it.

They are excellent tenants. Before I leased my property to the Chi- Good tenants. nese, in consequence of the locality, I could get only very inferior tenants, many of whom would cheat me out of my rent, and others would abuse the property, etc. The present tenants have paid a better price punctually. There has been no swearing, no noise, no trouble, no riotous conduct about the premises.

The squalor of the Chinese quarter is not much greater than that which Squalor not much exists in other parts of the city amongst other people. There has been a other parts of the greater than in great exaggeration in all those charges against the Chinese, at the same city. time I do not pretend to say that their quarter might not be cleaner. They would be clean if they were forced to be so. The city authorities undertake to clean the city in other parts, but the Chinese are left to take care of themselves and clean their own quarter at their own expense. Except early in the morning, when they are required to throw out garbage, which is very foul and disgusting, the streets are quite clean.

Occasionally the Chinese have a fight or riot among themselves, and Chinese very bad- they fight very fiercely when they do fight; but excepting those cases, which ly treated. are very rare, I never heard any trouble there. They are more sinned against than sinning. They receive a great deal of crimination, and yet the occasions of recrimination are exceedingly rare; not because they lack the courage, but because they are overawed and prefer peace. If they were not so maltreated, I think they would feel a great regard for the American people. They occasionally resist, but they generally submit to it and leave. I have seen a great many cases of assaults upon Chinamen committed in daylight.

Their hospital on Clay street is in a state of decay, owing to the fact of the hoodlums of the neighborhood constantly bombarding it with stones.

Hoodlums.

The police do their duty towards the Chinese, not because they are anxious to favor them, but to perform their duty according to their oath of office.

They have syphilis the same as other races, but I do not think the dis- Syphilis not worse ease is any more, nor do I think it is worse, among the Chinese than that among Chinese, than among white which originates with other people. In some parts of Europe the disease people. is fatal in three days.

more prostitutes.

It is stated that there are 4,000 Chinese prostitutes in the state; it is There should be also stated that there are about 1,000 of them here. That number is too little; there should be more. Prostitution is irrepressible: it is a neces- sity. If there is a certain supply of women of that character, the family is much more sacred and much more pure. The statement about the dis- ease being propagated among the boys by Chinese women is nonsense.

The hoodlums-the boys-go among them more to molest, to annoy, to Hoodlums. disturb them, than to use them; and when they use them they do not get more malady than by going to other houses.

The statement that the morality of our white boys is influenced by

Prostitutes do not. demoralize white. boys.

going among the Chinese is a gross exaggeration. Very few, anyhow, go among them for that purpose. They can go farther and fare better. The Chinese prostitutes do not exercise any influence among the white virtu- ous people, the white prostitutes exercise a very degenerating influence upon them; but it is inevitable. When men are unable to be men of fam- ilies, they are.nevertheless subject to the law of nature, and they must go among the prostitutes. If there is a comparison to be made at all, the white prostitutes who promenade our thoroughfares in rich attire, are more likely to have a had effect upon our poor white girls than the Chinese prostitutes. As far as the depravity of white young men is owing to female influence, it is the white prostitute more than it is the. Chinese in this city.

Garroting, highway robberies, rolling on drunks, etc., I have never known among the Chinese ; but such crimes are very common. I have never seen a drunken Chinaman ; they drink some whiskey, but moderately. Their dissipation is rather in opium ; but the cases in which they become maniacal from the use of it and lose their health are less frequent.

I read Dr. Meares' statement, and while I consider him a man of veracity and probity to the highest degree, yet I think he has exaggerated his dislike to the Chinese.

This agitation of the Chinese question injures me very much.

The cubic-air law has been misconstrued, and applied simply and entirely to molest and drive out the Chinese ; but if applied to all classes, nearly every block in the city would be found defective. The law is violated by whites as well as Chinese. There may be an occasional case where it is enforced against the whites.

Referring again to Chinese prostitution I think they should be allowed to come with the same facility that any other immigrants come, and I think that if 20,000 reputable Chinese females, virtuous women, could be brought into this city, and accepted into the family -- the human family-it would be a great advantage. The municipality should use legitimate means and proper sumptuary laws to guard the morality of the city ; but I do not believe that the entire expulsion of these women would do good. I believe in limiting that as in limiting every other misfortune of the human family to the smallest amount.

' The Chinese cannot directly assimilate with our people. No two races have been known to assimilate well. The black and the white assimilate, and the quadroon and the octoroon become quite a different people. There have been intermarriages already in this city. I think if a first-class Chinese woman and a first-class white man would marry, it would be a very much better cross than the white man on the negro or the white man on the Indian.

The opposition to the Chinese arises from a misconceived view of the competition of the Chinese against the other class-the laboring classes. It is jealousy and ignorance combined. The more intelligent and the more highly cultivated class of our population is that which most strongly advocates the Chinese, as well as that class which constitutes the house- keeping-the family of our city.

A very considerable number of Chinese are employed as servants in this city. I think the same degree of trust is reposed in them that is accorded to the servants of other races, black or white.

On being recalled the witness was cross-examined in regard to his modified views of the question.

The Chinese can buy property, why not naturalize them ? The tidal wave of bad immigration is just as strong from Europe and other countries as from Asia.

STOUT

The Chinese race go to the two extremes. You can get the highest Bad and good enlightenment, according to their system of education and religion, and Chinamen. specimens of you can get the most degraded. China has not turned out bigger repro- bates than England, or France, or Germany, or the United States, but rather more of them.

Americans or Europeans of respectability cannot live in California as Whites could not the Chinese tenants are living, and it is not desirable that they should. live like Chinese They can sleep in the same places but not according to civilization, decency, tenants. and morality.

The Chinese do not conflict with the industries of the other laboring Do not interfere classes ; they are entirely different.

with white labor.

WILLIAM M. DYE, insurance solicitor, sworn and examined : DYE.

The profit has been so great to insurers of Chinese property that a premium is offered for that particular insurance over that of white people. There are less losses ; there may not be fewer, but they are smaller in Less losses from amount generally. There are less fires in the Chinese quarter than in other parts of the city, taking the same proportion of houses. For sixteen years there has not been a single building entirely destroyed in the Chi- nese quarter. There have been two or three shanties that have been utterly destroyed ; but they were of no great value at all-probably not more than from $200 to $500 a piece. The company I represent, the Liverpool, Lon- don and Globe, has paid $60,000,000 of losses in the United States. My

employer says that he would prefer to settle, a loss with the Chinese rather than with white people ; that they were more reasonable in case of fire and partial loss. The State Investment, a local company, take Chinese Chinese more policies and pay a larger premium than other companies to get that in- reasonable in case - of fire and partial surance. Some companies pay a broker who brings business five per loss. cent. ; some will pay ten per cent. ; some will pay fifteen per cent. The State Investment pays fifteen per cent. There are two or three companies that have discontinued taking insurance on Chinese property.

The establishment of Chinese wash-houses all over the city has had the effect of raising the insurance. There are American laundries in the Laundries. Chinese quarter, and some in other parts of the city. Were it not for the Chinese wash-houses the washing would be done by women in families more largely than it is done. Their establishment has very likely absorb- ed the business. White people mostly patronize these laundries.

The premium is the same on property occupied by white people as it Premiums the is on property occupied by Chinese. There is not one cent difference. samc. The same with personal property.

The Chinese pay for fire insurance, probably, not less than $5,000 to $6,000 a month ; for marine insurance, they pay not less than from $6,000 to $7,000 a month.

CHARLES CROCKER, engaged in building railroads, sworn and examined : CROCKER.

The construction of the Central Pacific was commenced with white labor, Construction o and continued for a year and a half, when we found we could not get suffi- the Central Pacific. cient labor to progress with the road as fast as was necessary, and we were driven to the expediency of trying Chinese labor. There was a prejudice and a disposition not to employ them. We advertised thoroughly for

Chinese policies. Less fires.

white labor, and offered large prices, but failed to get more than 800 men. We tried the Chinese, and we found that they worked well ; and as our forces spread out, and we began to occupy more ground and felt more in a hurry, we put them into the softer cuts, and finally into the rock cuts. Wherever we put them we found them good, and they worked themselves into our favor to such an extent, that if we found we were in a hurry for a job it was better to put Chinese on at once. Previous to that we had always put on white men; and to- day if I had a big job of work that I wanted to get through with quickly, and had a limited time to do it in, I should take Chinese labor to do it with, because of its greater reliability and steadiness, and their aptitude and capacity for hard work. Their powers of endurance are equal to the best white men. This was tested in a tunnel of the hardest granite, where they worked on one side and Cornish miners on the other. The Chinese cut more rock in a week than the Cornish miners. In using the hammer and the drill they proved themselves equal to the best Cornish miners in that work. They are very trusty and intelligent and live up to their contracts.

The presence of Chinese as laborers among us goes very far toward the material interest of the country; without their labor we would be thrown back in all branches of industry. I believe that the effect of Chinese labor upon white labor has an elevating instead of a degrading tendency. When Has an elevating we began employing Chinese labor, instead of our white force decreasing influence on white labor. it increased from 800 to 2,500 and 3,000, and instead of these white men being engaged shovelling dirt, or with a pick and shovel, they were team- sters, mechanics, foremen, and men in an elevated grade of labor, receiv- ing wages far above what they would have done if we had had the same number throwing up the dirt and digging the rock. I know of several who used to be foremen and who never expected to be anything but shov- ellers of dirt, hewers of wood, and drawers of water, who are now respect- able farmers, owning farms. They got a start by controlling Chinese labor.

The Chinese that we employed were all temperate. Out of the 10,000 on the work I have never seen a drunken Chinaman. I have no recol- lection of ever having seen a drunken Chinaman, I have seen them under the effect of opium by going into their rooms where they smoke opium.

They are peaceful in their habits while at work in gangs. In one or two instances I have known of fights among them-clannish fights. We One strike among had one strike with the Chinese-a strike for higher wages ; but I think Chinese. they were incited to this by emissaries from the other side, who wished to keep us in the mountains while they were building the road over the plains. The strike lasted one week, and they all returned peaceably to. work.

There is labor for all, and there is no conflict between the interest of the white and the Chinese laborer. If the white laborer understood and realized his true interest he would be in favor of the present proportion of Chinese labor in this state. There might be an increase of the immi- gration to such an extent that it would be injurious, but the present equilibrium is not too much. One in ten of the entire population is about the number. The law of supply and demand will regulate itself if they are left alone. I recognize a Chinaman as more than an ordinarily intel- ligent man, and they will not come here unless they can get profitable: employment.

I believe if this question was argued calmly and deliberately before the people, without any of this hue and cry, eight-tenths of the people would vote for the amount of Chinese labor there is here now, and against this.

CROCKER

anti-Chinese sentiment. I have heard farmers and fruit-raisers, manu- facturers and mechanics, express the opinion that Chinese immigration was an advantage. It has not the same tendency to degrade free white labor as that of negro slavery in the south-because it is not servile labor, servile labor. You cannot control a Chinaman except you pay him for it. You cannot make any contract with him, or his friend, or supposed master, and get his labor unless you pay for it. I made a contract with a merchant here, for Chinamen, Koopmanschap, who brought me 500; I never made any contract with the Six Companies. We have always procured our China- men through the house of Sisson, Wallace & Co. here-Americans. They gathered them one at a time, two, three, four of them in a place, and got them together to make what is called a gang. Each gang is numbered and has a bookkeeper to keep the account among themselves. We have a foreman, and he keeps the account with the gang and credits them. When pay-day comes the head man of the gang is paid for all their labor, and then they divide it among themselves.

The Chinamen who are here are not as of much advantage to the state, as the same number of immigrants from the state of New York and New England would be ; but their presence here does not prevent the New Englander from coming, nor has it done so. On the contrary, if a New Englander comes here, he can use the Chinaman very much in opening a farm, and cultivating it after he gets it open. I do not believe there is a slave among them ; nor do I believe that the Spanish system of peonage Prefers white prevails among the Chinese here. I also believe that white population is better for the country than Chinese. Chinese labor is not better than white labor, but it is a mighty good substitute. The poor white man was degraded by negro slavery, because it was servile labor ; but now that the negro is free and can earn his money, the next generation or two will not feel ashamed to labor alongside of him. I have given some money to the missionaries here. I am a common carrier, and would rather have white men than Chinamen for travellers. If there were no Chinese going between here and Hong Kong our steamship line could be run with profit.

I do not think it would be a good idea to admit Chinamen to citizen- ship, nor is the presence of a large non-voting male class desirable. I Should not vote. believe in an educational standard for voting. If a Chinaman has lived in our country long enough to become educated in our language and to understand our institutions, he will make just as good a voter as myself ; and I would let him vote. But I do not believe they are going to remain here long enough to become good citizens, and I would not admit them to citizenship. They have no particular care about our political institutions. They are harmless and indifferent ; and they would not affect our politics, nor affect our morals, nor affect our status in any way.

A white laborer can afford to labor alongside of a Chinaman when they are both paid for their labor. There is an objection with them to do so, but I think the feeling of prejudice is fast wearing out. I should not like to see an even number of Chinamen with the whites here.

We paid the Chinamen $35 a month, boarding themselves ; their pur- A white man can chases at the store would average $9 a month. A white man can support on Chinamen's support himself himself on the same wages. At the present price of provisions, clothing, wages. etc., a white laboring man with a family would have to live very plain and simple on a dollar a day. The actual wants of a man are very few, and a dollar a day will buy a good deal of common and ordinary pro- visions- good meat and good flour. I believe that the white man is bet- ter than a Chinaman. I believe that when the brain of the white man

Chinese labor not

labor but Chinese a good substitute.

rubs against the brain of the colored man the white man will come out ahead all the time, When the white man comes in contact with Chinese Believes that the labor he is impelled to greater exertion, and he comes out a better man. white man has got more brain than the Chinaman. I believe that the white man has got more brain than the Chinaman, and when he is driven out of a lower class of labor he will aspire to a better.

The number of Chinamen in proportion to the number of white people. here is less now than it was ten years ago, and less than in 1860.

I think the white population of the state in 1860 was in the neighbor- hood of 600,000.

The white immigrant is worth more to the country than any other because he can become a member of our institutions and be a white man among white men ; but I would have Chinese grow apace with our immi- gration. If we had 12,000,000 of white men, 1,000,000 Chinamen would not come amiss to do our laboring work, and the state would be more prosperous for their presence.

A homogeneous population is better than a heterogeneous population. . There is great prejudice against the Chinese in this state, which works to their injury. I do not believe that a majority of the people justify this oppression. There has not been so much of it recently as there was about six months ago ; the excitement that was fanning into a flame has died away. There is a class of lawless people in the community who, when there is an exciting cause, do these things, which they would not do if they were not excited by class-prejudice.

HENRY K. W. CLARKE, lawyer by profession, engaged in farming, and a resident in California since 1849, sworn and examined :

Chinamen are generally employed as cooks in farmers' families and hotels in the neighborhood where I farm ; and to a very great extent they occupy the places of domestics outside of large cities and towns. You will very rarely find an American-born woman occupying those places. They are employed also in various manufactories, on railroads, in dyking, and in fruit raising, I sometimes see them, but not often, employed as plowmen.

The moral condition of the laboring classes is remarkably good-free from what we call public vices. They are a remarkably temperate people, and the most quiet and docile people I ever saw. The Chinese and the Portuguese are the two most industrious classes we have in California ; and their industry is accompanied with great economy. For faithfulness they compare well with other laborers.

In regard to their services I find that we pay Chinamen as high wages as we do white people for the same work. Cooks are paid as high as $40 a month. Women would be preferred, but it is impossible to pro- cure women to go into the country to do that work. It is very difficult, even in cities, to procure white girls as maids of all work for a small family. Chinamen will perform all the duties about a house, all the work of a small family.

I have heard and read a great deal about coolie labor, and from obser- vation I am satisfied there is no truth in it. They come here as others do, to get money, with the intention of returning ; many would remain and become permanent citizens if there was any encouragement given them.

CLARKE.

I know of a boy who learned to read and write the English language. He was first employed in a stable, and having by nature some gift with the pencil he became quite expert as an artist and painter. He assumed American clothes and lived in San Diego for many years. I think he is as well informed as any laboring man I know of in that community, and as much attached to American institutions. He is treated well, and the people there all speak well of him. Changing his habits, etc., has had a Application for great deal to do with it. In 1866 he wanted me to make an application citizenship. for him to become a citizen. I did so. The court said his impressions were that Mongolians could not be citizens. The court did not receive his declaration, but took the matter under advisement, and it finally dropped. He would have made as good a citizen as any we have.

Their treatment here by certain classes, generally a low class, has been Their treatment. very brutal. By the vast majority of people I think they have been treated very well.

Working up old diggings is very heavy labor. My experience is that a Chinaman will do any work that you will pay him for doing. They are not large-boned or large-muscled people, but exceedingly active and Not large-boned patient to toil. Blasting in tunnels, building levees in the tule-lands, but patient to toi. or large-muscledì and work of that kind, is done by Chinamen.

Their notions are very elevated in regard to their contracts ; you call Can be relied on rely upon them. I have never had any litigation with a Chinaman ; tracts. there have been suits between Chinamen and white people. For truth- fulness they compare favorably with other people in the same class of life.

We have laws against perjury, but they are very rarely enforced. Perjury. Perjury is very common in the courts, and is not confined to the lower class. Class with class the Chinese compare very well with the whites in this respect.

I have always supposed that their employment had a tendency to elevate Employment of white labor. I consider the Chinaman in farming a labor-saving machine.

An Americanized Chinaman.

in regard to con-

Chinese tends to raise white labor ..

SAN FRANCISCO, November 15th, 1876.

HENRY K. W. CLARKE's examination continued : CLARKE.

Limiting the immigration of Chinese by legislation would be a violation Treaty. of the treaty with China. It would be very bad political economy. Bad policy to Immigrants coming from an English port, in an English ship, the question would be between England and our Government.

The Chinese are different to us in their habits. They dress differently, associate differently, their treatment of women is different. The man- ner in which they live is different. Very little is known about what their feeling is toward republican institutions. The opinion among stances. the masses is that they are an inferior race. From the mo- ment the Chinese land here until they lay down their bones or leave this shore there is a constant opposition, a constant building up of a Chinese wall between them and the American people, which has the effect of making them a separate colony or community in our midst. As they talk: Chinese and do not talk English, they naturally associate together. I think the Chinese would associate just as well with the American people as Germans and Irishmen if they were treated in the same way.

limit immigration: of Chinese.

A separate, dis- tinct, unamalgam -- ating people, only because of facti- tious circum-

'CLARKE

Nothing to prevent Chinese mixing. Labor not semi- servile. Heterogeneity useful to a people.

Chinese men and American women do not assimilate ; they cannot by reason of the difficulties that we raise, not by reason of difficulties that exist in nature. There is nothing in nature, disposition or habits, that would prevent the Chinese in the course of time from assimilating in customs and habits with the Americans. I do not think their labor is semi-servile.

My opinion is that a heterogeneous population is more beneficial to the country than a homogeneous population. A people will improve better.

·Opposition to Chinese the child of ignorance. Used by politi- cians.

The opposition to the Chinese originates through ignorance. That is the true source. People of more intelligence, wishing to avail themselves of that degree of ignorance, use it for political purposes. The prejudice against the Irishman coming to this country was just as strong as it is now against the Chinese. But this prejudice disappears; the people become enlightened.

Judge Campbell agrees with me in regard to this question -the benefit of Chinese labor-as well as several of my neighbors who do not employ Chinamen. I cannot say that the daily press of San Francisco are in favor of Chinese immigration as I am. Every paper panders to its class.

On the subject of Chinese immigration I am satisfied to have it go on record that those who differ with me are ignorant. On some subjects they may be very intelligent but on this subject they are ignorant.

To a very large extent what we call the non-producing class is opposed to the Chinese.

I know there was a very great outrage committed upon the Chinese at Antioch about a year ago, but I am not familiar with the circumstances.

The resolutions of political parties I regard as rather a race or struggle for a particular vote. In conversation with Judge Glascock, referring to the passing of resolutions at a democratic meeting against the Chinese, he said : " O, well, we do this simply as politicians ; but as a citizen of California I am as much in favor of Chinese immigration as you are." My experience satisfies me that that is the prevailing opinion among politicians.

BABCOCK.

WILLIAM F. BABCOCK, a resident since 1852, sworn and examined :

The evidence given by this witness is the same as given before the Canadian Commission. [See Minutes of Evidence, p. 13.]

EVANS.

WEST EVANS, dealer in railroad ties, etc., and a resident in the country for twenty-five years, sworn and examined .

Chinese better for building rail- roads. In the manufacture of railroad ties I have used white labor ; in build ing railroads I use mostly Chinese. The latter give us better satisfaction generally. I have had probably 400 or 500 white men employed in my busiest time. A year or two ago I advertised for 100 white men. I sent White men apt to more than 100 up to the work, but when they got there not more than balk. from twenty to thirty would work. They thought it was too hard.

There was a threatened conflict in Mendocino between the white labor- ers and Chinese ; it came from the Irish side, who ordered my superin- tendent to discharge all the Chinamen.

Outrages.

The prevailing opinion among politicians that the Chinese use- ful. They join agitation merely for political pur- poses.

EVANS

I want men now and cannot get them. In building the road we start- ed the men in on $40 a month and board ; if a man was worth more we paid it to him. To some of them, bridge-building, we paid as high as $110 a month and boarded them.

At stated times, during political compaigns, the men get troublesome Witness has had and dissatisfied. I never had any trouble between white men and China- no trouble be- tween white and men, except with the Catholic Irish. The Protestant Irish and men of other Chinese except in nationalities never meddle with them. The opposition to the Chinese the case of the Catholic Irish. comes through politicians and this class I speak of. I never heard any business men opposed to Chinamen.

The Chinese have been a benefit to the state. I have done work that Chinese a benefit I could not have done without them. If white men had been here and to the state. had worked I could have done it ; I tried to get white men to do this work and failed. It is quite likely that a great many white laboring men came here last year and year before and went back east, but they went back because they did not want to work. White men are not generally Some white men loafers, but there is a large percentage of the white population here who will choose their work. choose their work. Labor is classified. There is labor here for every Labor is classified. man in the state if he will work.

JAMES H. STROBRIDGE, engaged in railroad building, and a resident in STROBRIDGE. the state for twenty-seven years, sworn and examined :

I was superintendent of construction on the Central Pacific, which was Could not get started with white labor. We wanted several thousand men, but were never able to get more than 700 or 800 white men. We finally resorted ployed in conse- to Chinamen, at one time working fully 10,000 of them. The white labor was increased to 2,000 to 2,500, who were made foremen, teamsters and hostlers.

The Chinamen were good laborers, and as reliable and honest as other Chinese reliable, .people-much more reliable ; they would not get drunk and go away as white men do. They were furnished to us by different companies, some- times Chinamen, sometimes white men. Latterly, Sisson, Wallace & Furnished by Co. furnished pretty much all the Chinamen we worked. companies.

Some Chinamen we employed were unreliable. White mechanics are Some Chinamen almost always steady men ; the teamsters and hostlers, as a rule, were unreliable. not steady ; and the white men working in the pits were generally un- steady. Our foremen were very unsteady ; eight-tenths of the foremen were taken from the pits, from shovellers and from drillers. The class of The class of men men who go upon public works are rather unsteady men. It is about the same thing on railways building in New England, only that the workmen are a little more riotous there than here.

The Chinese at work were not more docile than white men ; the trouble Seven-tenths of with the latter comes in when they are paid and they get drunk. Seven- drunk and boister- white labor got tenths of the white labor employed, except mechanics, got drunk and ous after being boisterous after being paid. It was the rule in other states as well, where paid. railroads were being constructed. With white men we had no difficulty in getting them to go on any work, rock-cutting or anything else, but with Chinamen we had a great deal of difficulty in getting them to go on Some difficulty in rock, and to do much hard work, because they were not accustomed to it. getting Chinese to go on heavy work. Witness not wholly satisfied The Chinese are cheaper. I am not satisfied with them as laborers in every respect. We get along with them with very little difficulty. If they had with them as done a great deal more work than they did I would have been better laborers. satisfied.

white labor. More white labor em-

quence of em- ploying Chinese.

who go on public works are rather unsteady men.

STROBRIDGE

In large bodies Chinamen would be preferable ; it is difficult to control whites when paid. large bodies of white men after pay-day. They go on a spree. Indepen- dent of that I would prefer them. There is not much difference between the amount of work of a gang of white laborers and a gang of Chinese, when they are well handled.

CHARLES S. PECK, drayman, and a resident for eighteen years, sworn and examined :

Our business is almost exclusively with the Chinese, perhaps to the amount of $25,000 a year. Including the custom house draymen the Chinese perhaps pay $75,000 a year. In dealing with them we have found them strictly honest. The general opinion among those of my acquaintance seems to be that the Chinese have been beneficial to the state, and that what is here is well enough ; but they think there should be some measures taken perhaps to limit the immigration in the future. Some think so and some do not ; some think that it will be according to supply and demand. There are about 3,000 draymen in the city, and probably two-thirds of this number I have conversed with and with whose ideas I am familiar.

Beneficial to have the Chinese population in- If the Chinese population should increase in a certain ratio with the white population it would be beneficial to the state and country. With a crease in a certain population of 1,200,000 I think we could endure another 50,000 Chinese, ratio with the white. and I think it would be desirable to restrict the ratio at about that figure as to the labor of the state, There is a certain class-the laboring class- which is opposed to Chinese immigration.

If the draying was monopolized by the Chinese I presume those engaged in the business would find something else to do. I think the majority of those engaged in doing the draying business are of opinion that we can stand an increase in the number of Chinese here. The draymen have a union and I have heard individual members express themselves, but not in general discussion. I have also heard others express the opposite opinion, and a few that they ought to be driven out of the country.

I do not know that there is any limit to the amount of land they may acquire and the number of colonies they may create. I think there are but few Chinese who would venture in that class of enterprise, and I do not think the state would be overrun ; at the same time there is nothing to prevent them getting possession of the soil of the state, as long as we do not restrict them in any way. Everything considered, I would be in favor of a reasonable restriction in the number allowed to come.

CAMPBELL ALEXANDER CAMPBELL, lawyer, at one time judge, and a resident of twenty years, sworn and examined :

The effect of Chinese immigration to this time has been a benefit to the whole state, and I do not see any necessity at the present time in limiting or restricting this immigration. I believe it will be regulated by the universal law of supply and demand.

Chinese immi- grant does not differ very much I value Chinamen very highly as laborers and as house-servants. I repose the same confidence in them as I do in any others. I do not think from other immi- the Chinese immigrants differ much from any other class of immigrants of the same character and standing as themselves -- in the same vocations,

CAMPBELL

following the same line of life. The merchants, from what I hear, as a ·class, are a very high-toned mercantile people. I prefer Chinese servants Prefers Chinese to any others. They are more quiet, they are more systematic, they are servants. very cleanly, and very intelligent ; and when there was a press of matter, such as another servant leaving, or sickness in the house, when extra work was required to be done, I have found them very ready to take their share Never had occa- of that extra work ; and so far as my personal observation goes, I have white men in his sion to distrust never had occasion to distrust any of those who have been in my employ. employ. They have free access to pretty much everything. I have never had the Does not think least reason ever to suspect that they are under the influence of any other tends to prevent their presence person than themselves. I contract with each one individually. I do not think their presence here tends to prevent the immigration of whites to the state. The building of railroads and other works performed by Chinese labor has thrown open large portions of the country for settle- ment, causing immigration to flow into those regions.

immigration of whites to the state. The build- ing of roads has thrown open large port try for settlement.

I think the opinions of disinterested parties, who have no political Disinterested public opinion in objects to gain-the intelligent portion of the community-are favorable favor of Chinese. to Chinese immigration on a limited scale.

The Chinese are a convenience and a profit at the present time. If they were received and treated as other people coming to these shores, my impression is, from their natural intelligence, that they would make good citizens as soon as they had time enough to become acquainted with our position.

I think our civilization is higher than theirs; and in their morality The Chinese as a and religious teachings they are not so good as ours. I do not think that nation not equal to American people. the Chinese as a nation are equal to the American people as a nation.

My impression is that if you would give them a fair chance they would Thinks if they got assimilate ; they would adopt our manners, habits, customs, and become would become a chance they republicans. I do not know of any who have assimilated, nor am I good republicans. aware of any Chinaman who does not wear, in part or whole, his Chinese costume and the Chinese queue.

I have heard of their attending our Christian churches, and I have seen them attending the Sunday schools.

My impression is that they do not generally learn to grasp intelligently Average intelli- our form and structure of government. The number of intelligent Chinese that of other compares very favorably with the intelligence of almost any other people peoples. that I am acquainted with. I never met one who could not read and write his own language.

The Chinese are imitative but not inventive.

At present I would not give them the right of the elective franchise ; their civilization has not advanced far enough for that ; but I would give but would give them schools where they could be educated. them schools.

In some branches I am inclined to think there is a conflict between American and Chinese labor. I think there is a great deficiency of labor labor has done a on this coast ; more is wanted instead of less. Chinese labor has per- good work. formed a very large part in the development of the state: building rail- roads, levees, etc.

I think the opposition to the Chinese originates in an unfounded Opposition has jealousy on the part of the workingmen, that they are to be cut out of unfounded their employments. I think also that political agitation has arisen out of jealousy. this question.

Cheap labor has not a tendency to elevate the working classes ; if it Anything that

tends to depre- goes below a certain point sufficient to give them the necessaries of life ciate the stand- it may have a contrary effect. Anything in this country which tends to

gence as high as

Imitative but not inventive.

Would not giv them the franchise

More labor needed. Chinese

arisen out of an

ard of labor injurious.

21

CAMPBELL

Community would be better if the people were homogeneous.

depreciate either the standing or value of labor, I think would be injuri- ous beyond a certain point.

I am inclined to think the community would be better if the people were rather homogeneous than heterogeneous. I do not think it ad- visable for whites and Chinese, or whites and Indians, or whites and negroes to amalgamate. My impression is that there is not, either men- tally or physically, so great a difference between whites and Chinese as between the whites and the negroes. I have never visited the Chinese quarter to inspect and examine as to their character, conduct, and way of living.

The Chinese ratio of increase since 1860 is not greater than that of whites.

ARMSTRONG. EDWARD J. ARMSTRONG, sworn and examined :

Proportion of Chinese litigants in district courts.

The number of cases in the district courts of this city up to the present time is between 69,000 and 70,000 ; in the fourth district court, 28,000. In that court there were twenty-nine actions in which the Chinese were defendants, sued for breach of contract, or debt, or on promissory notes ; for the foreclosure of a mortgage, one ; damages for assault, one ; and for malpractice there were two. There were numerous cases for ejectment and occupation of land, to quit titles, where Chinese names appeared.

EASTERBY. ANTHONY W. EASTERBY, a resident in California for twenty-seven years, affirmed and was examined :

Mixed character of public opinion on this question.

The feeling among the intelligent people with whom I have come in contact, in regard to the Chinese question, is mixed. Some have prejudices against them, and some think that they fill a position that others could not fill. I think their presence here does not diminish the employment of whites or lower their rate of wages. In the interior The positions they they fill the places of servants, cooks, etc., work which white people fill. would not do. It would be impossible to get girls to occupy those positions. Girls would not go among a crowd of men, farm-laborers, to live there alone unless they were married and with their husbands; then the climate is such that it is very severe upon them in the hot seasons. All the farmers that I have ever spoken with are in favor of having Chinese for servants. In some cases they use them as laborers on the farm doing light work, and where horses are not used. They do not seem to understand the use of horses as whites do. They are faithful and you can depend upon their attending to their work without watching them. I have never found a dishonest Chinaman, nor have I ever known one to drink liquor. They are very industrious, and work continuously. Some- times there is a difficulty in getting sufficient white labor to save the harvest, all farmers requiring men at the same time. After the harvest is over, there is no more use for the hands until the rain comes, when it is necessary to plow, and then only a much smaller amount is needed. In hiring the Chinese you generally employ a foreman to get the amount Perfectly inde- pendent of their foremen. of men you require ; I think they are perfectly independent of their foremen, as I have seen some of them leave without their wish. I hire them and pay them through the foreman.

I am an old farmer, a reclamation and canal maker, and employer of Chinese, and as such I am speaking of the Chinese entirely in reference to

EASTERBY

the material interest of the country, and their contributing to our con- venience and comfort as laborers, as well as our money-making capacity with them.

SAMUEL H. DWINELLE, judge, and a resident in San Francisco for twenty- DWINELLE. seven years, sworn and examined :

I have no monetary interest in this question. I have an interest as a citizen.

Under some circumstances Chinese immigration should be restricted, but I am not prepared to believe that it is necessary at present. If we should have a surplus population it should be limited. The extreme immigration influx of population-too much for the resources of the country-might make it necessary to prevent immigration of all kinds, Chinese as well as any other. I think the proportion of the white population is becoming greater than the Chinese population.

In one sense there is a conflict between Chinese and white labor, Chinese labor does springing out of the high price of white labor, particularly in regard to not prevent em- ployment of white labor ; has been beneficial to the domestics. The employment of Chinese labor does not prevent the em- ployment of white labor. I do not think there is a plethora of labor on state. the coast. Chinese labor has been beneficial to the state. The railroad across the continent and various business ventures could not have been carried on without cheap labor.

There is a strong prejudice prevailing among the laboring classes Class-prejudice. against the Chinese, which, I think, grows out of an apprehension that the Chinese are taking their work from them, or will do it hereafter. This opposition is confined pretty much to the laboring classes. Farmers in the interior say they prefer Chinese to white labor ; and some of them have said their crops could not be moved without the assistance of the Chinese.

The testimony of the Chinese is very conflicting; they do not stand Testimony unre- the test of cross-examination any better than any other witnesses. liable.

I should prefer white labor to Asiatic, because they assimilate more to our ways, our customs, and our religion. To some extent I am in favor of cheap labor, where we must have labor to gather our crops. The Chinese come here as adventurers, to make money. The people from the east come here to stay, as a general thing. White laborers are more White labor more desirable, at a little higher figure than Chinese at a lower, in our indus- desirable at a higher figure. tries and mechanical employments.

I think the majority of the people of this city are opposed to Chinese Public opinion immigration, and from my observation in that part of the state where I have been, I think the people would not be opposed to it. The fact that all the political conventions of all parties, county, state and municipal, have, passed resolutions against Chinese immigration indicates popular opinion on the subject. The daily press, I should judge, is opposed to it. The complaint that comes from the laboring men should not be disre- garded. They ought to be heard.

If there was a surplus popula- tion, Chinese

should be restricted ; not necessary at present.

against Chinese. immigration.

THOMAS H. HYATT, engaged in farming, at one time Consul at Amoy, China, sworn and examined :

Witness read a letter of his own which appeared in the Daily Evening Bulletin of April 14, 1876, entitled "The Chinese question honestly, philosophically, commercially, politically, civilly, impartially and indepen- dently considered."

The Chinese who come here are usually of the lower class, many of them from up about Canton and Amoy. A good many of them are idle, and a good many of them are sons of farmers from the adjoining country. They come here to better their condition. Those about the town are generally rather a rough, hard, loose set, but back in the country among the agricultural population of China, you find very respectable, reputable, and decent Chinamen.

At the time I was residing there it was considered that there were 80,000 Chinamen living on the waters of Canton, in their boats. They were born, brought up, married and died there in their boats, and only taken on shore to be buried. Then up and down the coast every little inlet is filled with what are called Chinese pirates.

The departures of coolies from Amoy and other parts along the coast, either went directly to San Francisco or to other ports. They did not go to · Hong Kong. Sometimes a vessel goes. to Hong Kong to fill up the cargo or something of that sort, but those who go as coolies generally go direct from Amoy. I know that very many coolies were taken on the ships that were sailing from Hong Kong to San Francisco but the great bulk of them were engaged all along up the coast. A great many of the immigrants from China come from the piratical class, which is an immi- gration we could do without very well, and had better be discouraged by any proper legislation restricting them from coming here. If we must have that population, if we had not laborers enough, let us send and get a better class-the rural laborers in the interior ; or, better still, send and get the better class of people from New England and the eastern states. Almost all my farming business is done directly or indirectly with white labor, and I prefer to do it in that way; but in the busy season it is very difficult to get enough white laborers. I would favor any judicious legislation that would encourage eastern and foreign immigration instead of Chinese or Asiatic. There is no difficulty of white laborers in our region of the country getting employment ; but there have been times when it was impossible to get any other than Chinese help. While Chinese labor would be very embarrassing to laborers here, it would be less so in the country.

The ship I came over in in 1861 brought 500 coolies from Hong Kong direct to San Francisco. A coolie is an employed laborer who lives on his labor. The contracts and obligations are different for those coming to California than those going to the Peruvian Islands. I class laborers on canals, farms and ditches as coolies, not slaves that I know of-not peons. "Coolies going to month and their board. The con- tract seemed fair · enough. Coolies going to Peru were taken for ten years. I think at $5 a month Peru went for $5 a and their living. The contract appeared fair enough upon the face. I do not know of any coming to California under such contracts. I had supposed there were a great many, but I never knew. I have no know- ledge of any kidnapped men being brought to California. When they were constructing the Panama Railroad, they sent over agents to engage Chinamen to come on and do that work, and they furnished the coolies The contractor in with means. Every coolie has some tie that binds him back to China, erful hold over the and he does not go and violate that contract, because in China they take China has a pow-

HYATT:

a brother, or they will take the father, or any of the family, to make up coolie, because in that country the what the other man may refuse to do, as security. They can imprison next of kin can be the next of kin for debt, which is a pretty powerful influence upon the imprisoned for debt. mind of the coolies.

They sell female children in China. I have had mothers offer me their Girl-babies sold girl-babies for two bits-twenty-five cents. Among the poorer class they for two bits. do not regard girls as worth anything, and they want to sell them or give them away. I do not think they consider it a crime; they thought it would be a benefit to the child. The women, although sold for $25 of The women sold $30, consider themselves wives. I do not think they have the idea of at $25 and $30 con- degradation that prostitutes have. I do not know of an out-and-out sale as wives. sider themselves for promiscuous intercourse.

I think the Chinese Government at the present time are very much Chinese Govern- opposed to their people going away, and they would not look with disfavor on restrictive legislation. The presence of foreigners in China is not so away, and would disagreeable, because they find it profitable. If they did not trade directly with us they would through Singapore and other islands where there are English and Americans.

ment opposed to their people going

not look on restric- tion with disfavor-

JOHN STUART, employed in the freight business of the Pacific Mail Steam- STUART. ship Company since 1865, sworn and examined :

The Chinese cannot very well be surpassed for integrity and honesty in High commercial dealing. I have always found them very correct, honest, straightforward, Chinese. character of and reliable. In many cases I would prefer to do business with their merchant class than with our people. We have no difficulty whatever in collecting freight-money. The commerce between China and this country varies in a great measure ; some years it is greater than others, but for the most part it is increasing.

The Chinese are as cleanly as any other nationality I have seen come Clean. off an American ship; rather more so than otherwise. There is very little disease among them, and very few cases of sickness on the voyage. Very little In conversation with Chinamen they always appeared to me to be opposed disease. to the coming of Chinese prostitutes.

.With reference to the immigration of Chinese, in my opinion it never will assume proportions that will interfere with the morality of the state to any extent. From 100 to 200 is the number, per steamer, arriving ; and from 400 to 600 returning. There are regular seasons for them to arrive and to return. Many of the coolies that we have heard about to- day are of the mercantile class. Their character for credit stands very good.

Iminigration would never assume formid- able proportions ..

Rev. MARTIN C. BRIGGS, minister, sworn and examined : BRIGGS.

There are two classes whose opinions are entirely different on the Divided state of Chinese question. The laboring classes, and more especially the Irish public opinion. people generally in our community, seem to be strongly and violently "opposed to the Chinese in every way. The other class are persons who have some permanent interest, persons who are engaged in labor, and per- sons who wish to engage in labor, do not entertain the same feeling, and do not sympathize with that view. Very generally the latter not only do not wish the removal of the Chinese, but they judge that it is on the

BRIGGS

Chinese docile and steady.

whole better for the state that they should be here. Our people would prefer white labor if they could get persons who would be quiet, indus- trious, temperate, and well-behaved. They employ Chinese because they are more docile and pursue their work more steadily. The small farmers in the country very generally are inclined to look with patience, and a large majority of then with favor, upon the presence of the Chinese here. I do not think it necessary at the present time to limit Chinese im- migration.

SAN FRANCISCO, November 16th, 1876.

HOLLISTER. WILLIAM W. HOLLISTER, farmer and a resident in California for twenty- four years, sworn and examined :

laborers in California that ought to be here.

Chinamen en- tirely ahead of all .others.

I think I own not far from 75,000 acres of land, and about 50,000 sheep. From my experience in this state we never have had a sufficient amount of reliable, patient, kindly labor. The field of labor is so enormous that Not a tithe of the I do not see when the time will come when it shall be fully filled. My opinion is that there is not a tithe of the laborers in California that ought to be here now. As to the character of the labor of the country in this state, I put Chinamen entirely ahead of all others ; there is no man who performs the labor of this country in a kindly way to suit, and does his very best for the proprietor, like the Chinaman ; I have never seen a better laborer any time in the course of my life. I do not see how the industries of California can be possibly carried on if there is not more labor, instead of less. I cannot see how I can myself carry on my work as a farmer.

It would not be wise to put a stop to Chinese immigration. I would open the door and let everybody come who wants to come. The only inducement for the Chinaman to come here to-day is the great wages paid. I have never seen a drunken Chinaman in my life. The moral condition of the 400 Chinese in our county is so good that there have been but five arrests in the course of a year. Two of them were dismissed ; two cases were for petty larceny. So much better does this immigration compare morally with other immigration of the same class that, if the teachings of paganism make honest men as I find Chinamen to be I think of becoming pagan myself.

Not quite up in physical strength to white, but As an average the Chinaman is not quite up to the average of the white population in physical strength. They are not very strong men, but they earnest, good men. are very earnest, good men. Their health is first rate. In regard to cleanliness, they are better than the whites. They shame our population in that respect.

Clean.

No peonage or slavery among them.

I never supposed or believed that there was a particle of peonage or slavery among the Chinamen of California ; and I do not believe there is to-day.

Never met a ·Chinaman who «desired to stay.

They don't care about the fran- -chise.

I have never seen a single instance where a Chinaman has desired own property and stay. All they seem to want is a place to work, and to get our money. They return when they get enough.

I do not believe that any of them care a straw about the franchise, and I do not see why a Chinaman is not just as good as any other man, so far as citizenship is concerned. They perform almost every kind of labor that is done on farms or in the household. They are not skilled as horsemen.

Moral condition of 400 Chinamen in witness's county so good only five arrests in a year.

HOLLISTER

I think I may have seen a few Chinamen under the influence of opium, Opium-smoking not universal.

but so far as my experience goes it is not universal.

As to proprietors, I think there is a common sentiment and feeling in All proprietors favor of the Chinamen. They are a last resort. They are the only thing they are a last in their favor ; that the farmer can rely upon at all. They adapt themselves to all work resort. because the others will not do it at the price at which they work. The bummer always goes against the Chinaman. The man who demands big wages is simply running against himself ; he breaks down all employment and nobody can hire him.

The Chinese are employed as house-servants ; there is nothing else to No other class to employ. White women will not go to the country. be employed as house-servants.

In the same proportion as the labor adds to the wealth of a country a The Chinaman Chinaman adds to the wealth of the state. He does not take any of it takes no money away ; not a dollar. If I hire a man and pay him a dollar, I get an more than he gets away. Hegives equivalent for that money in the labor performed. If I am not a fool, in labor. that labor is worth more to me than the money I pay.

The Chinaman is the best man in California ; he is honest, truthful, The Chinaman faithful, and never breaks a contract.

the best man in California.

I do not see how the employment of Chinese can affect white labor, though it may be so. The Chinaman opens two doors to labor where he The Chinaman closes one. A great many of our industries would not have existed to-day but for the presence of the few Chinamen who have made the under- he closes one. takings possible. I think their presence here is a strong incentive for European and eastern labor to come here.

opens two doors to labor where

Railroads could not have been

The railroads, which have been the means of opening up and settling a vast extent of territory in California, could not have been built without built without Chinese labor. They might have been built, but at such an expense that them. they would be almost worthless. The railroad has given new life to the whole country.

Labor is twice as high as what it is worth ; it is a dollar a day and board. Labor twice as There is not an industry nor a farm in the state that will stand over fifty worth. high as it is cents. a day. The laborer can live better when he gets four bits a day, and the cost of living is lowered, than when he works for three dollars a Wages. day and pays three dollars for a sack of potatoes. A man can live on fifty cents to-day just as well as it was ever done, but it presupposes honesty, economy, persistent industry, and all that ; the virtues practised forty years ago. I would hire an American quicker than any other man in the world, because he is the best man if he is a good man. I hire Chinamen at $15 a month, and I pay $30 a month to American., and the Chinaman are doing just as much as the Americans.

All the women can get employment if they will work at prices that All women can will justify employment, and beyond that they have no right to ask. I expect to see some hardship in this revolution from high to low wages. Everybody has got to expect it.

I have been part proprietor of 318,000 acres of the richest lands in the state. The orignal cost varied from $1 to $1.50, some few ranches cost as high as $4 or $5 an acre.

Ever since I have been in the state I have employed to some extent Chinese labor, more of it latterly because my business admits of it.

The money paid for white country labor goes in whiskey. There is Money paid for more money wasted in whiskey and idleness than would pay the national debt. If ever there was a country in the world given up to bummerism, it is the state of California. The rule is for American laborers to-day to be drunkards. They are bummers.

So long as I get the work performed, I make no difference between

get employment if they will be con- tent with reason- able wages

white labor goes in whiskey.

the muscle of a horse, the power of a steam-engine, the power of a China- man or the power of a white man, or any other man employed by me.

The wealth of the country will be due to the advent of cheap labor. I think the white man is better than any other man.

Labor cheap enough to justify employment is a necessity for social progress. There is no other way for it. Unless we continue to reduce labor agriculture will cease to be an employment in this country. The farmers. could stand about $12 a month, to make a success of their business.

I think that all men ought to work, and all women to the extent of their power. It makes a man a better citizen ; the child more level- headed, with less vagaries in the brain. They grow squarer ; straighter. A fair and equal distribution of mental and physical labor is always best ..

In regard to the existence of hoodlums, there are a great many causes operating to bring about this condition of affairs. Apparently the parents have been getting along pretty well, speculating, making money, and are careless about the education of their children, and it may be ascribed in part to the common disinclination of our people to work. The American to-day wants to live by his wits. I should think, from what I see in our towns in the country, that if the proportion is the same here as there, perhaps two-thirds of the entire population are doing little or nothing.

My Chinamen live just as well as anybody. They live just as I do. I have known a Chinaman to pay $2.50 for a chicken. I think they will have just what they want, cost what it will.

Labor and capital should work hand in hand, and with reciprocal advan- tage.

On being recalled, the witness filed a letter on the problem of labor (Appendix R to Joint Committee Rep., Ex. '1) ; also a communication with reference to the criminal statistics of Santa Barbara (Appendix R to Joint Committee Rep., Ex. 2). The former is to the effect that labor and progress go hand in hand ; muscle, brains, and capital must have an equitable partnership ; exportation at a loss is ruinous ; production before commerce ; antecedent to all trade is labor ; money not wealth ; money, a measure of value and has no other value ; labor, morality, and civilization march abreast ; labor is the penalty we pay for civilization ; we must work on an equality with other nations, and work more ; labor is the only weapon ; capital is brain and muscle done up in a form agreed upon by the world and carried conveniently in the pocket ; without labor capital is useless ; laborers enough east if they will only work at prices capital can afford to pay ; high-priced labor strikes hardest on agriculture, it makes high-priced products ; labor-saving machines have not of late years cheapened products ; a monopoly of muscle demoralizing ; labor and capital must be joined bý good-will ; what use is capital when labor places an embargo upon it ? Cheap labor a necessity and a blessing.

According to the latter exhibit the estimated number of Chinese in Santa Barbara was : in county, 400 ; in city, 300. From December 8th, 1875 to. September 18th, 1876, there were five arrests among them, two for gambling, one being dismissed and the other fined ; one for assault, not guilty ; one for petit larceny (stealing fruit from a garden), fined ; and one for dis- turbing the peace, fined. No Chinaman received public support or aid from city or county during the present clerks' terms of office, over two years.

HILL.

JOHN H. HILL, farmer, a resident in California since 1850, sworn and examined :

I employ Chinese labor, and from my experience I find them to be temperate, industrious, honest, and good laborers. In my district there are, perhaps, some 500 Chinamen employed, largely in cultivating the Chinese necessary grape for the farmers. The industry would have to be abandoned if it of the grape. for the cultivation depended upon white labor. White labor could not be got to do the work on the spur of the moment. Judging from circumstances and what I know I think the opinion of the people in my county is favorable to the Chinese.

THOMAS BROWN, cashier of the Anglo-California Bank, sworn and BROWN. examined ·

Our exchange business with China and Japan will average in the Exchange neighborhood of a million or a million and a half a year ; probably over China and that. We sell a large amount of exchange to Chinese merchants, and so far as our business with them is concerned they have always been very straightforward and very correct. Our business with them has very materially increased during the last five years.

I think a large influx of Chinamen would have a bad effect upon our people here.

As servants I have always found the Chinese very honest.

I do not think it desirable to extend the Chinese quarter over the city. Its extension has a depressing effect upon the value of real estate, and drives out pretty much all other commercial business in that neighborhood, as well as families. The Chinese quarter at one time used to be the seat of a large and prosperous retail trade.

business with

Japan averages $1,500,000.

High commercial character. But a large influx of Chinaman would have a bad effect on the whites. House-servants. Undesirable to extend Chinese quarter ; depresses . value of real estatè ; drives away white busi- ness houses and families.

JOHN M. HORNER, farmer and a resident on the coast for over thirty HORNER. years, sworn and examined :

I employ any labor that I can get, all nationalities, a great portion Could farm with- Chinese. I could carry on my farming operations without Chinese out Chinese, but find them very labor, but I find them a very convenient class of laborers. The convenient. whole success of farming does not depend upon them. It is when we have As a general thing the property abundant crops, and not enough help around without them, that they are holders in witness" convenient. There has not been an overplus of labor in my neighborhood district in favor of Chinese. this fall, even with the Chinamen. All who own property there employ In comparison them ; and they are as a general thing in favor of it. That arises more on account of its reliability than on account of its cheapness. In compa- rison with the east Chinese labor here is not cheap.

Three-quarters of those who own property in my neighborhood, would vote for Chinese labor if submitted to them aside from politics. Some of those who employ Chinese labor think if it could be properly done it would be well to have restrictive legislation.

On being recalled, the witness read a statement bearing on the ques- legislation. tion, which was not taken as testimony.

There are a large number of Chinamen unemployed in the state, some idle all the time, and sometimes they are here in thousands. When labor is scarce they cannot all be employed.

with the east Chinese labor not cheap. Three-fourths of those who hold property would vote for Chinese labor. Some of those who employ it in favor . of restrictive

330

A benefit to the United States to have the Chinese by millions scattered over the . country.

I think it would be a benefit to the whole United States to have the Chinese by millions, scattered all over the country, if the proper laws were enforced.

MORGEN- THAU.

MAX MORGENTHAU, manufacturer, and a resident for twenty-seven years, sworn and examined :

20,000,000 bags im- ported from Scotland in 1875. Witness manu- factures 12,000 a day.

White labor went away and had to employ Chinese.

Cannot compete with the east with white labor.

We cannot get white labor to enter into the manufacture of goods to any considerable extent to compete with the east. All classes buy where they get the cheapest article.

The Chinamen start on their own hook in the boot and shoe business because ma- chinery is cheap. But for a woolen mill or a jute factory it requires from $200,000 to $300,000 for ma- chinery. In the case of the boot business, after the Chinamen learn that business they will go away and start business for themselves, the machinery does not amount to much ; but in a woolen mill or jute factory it requires from $200,000 to $300,000 to get machinery. Their starting on their own hook in the boot and shoe business is the reason, it seems, there is so much opposition to them ; and I have no doubt if the thing is carried on the Chinese will get control of that business. In our business it requires too much capital to get machinery. Any business that does not Any business that require capital and machinery they soon control. In the cigar business we used to import every cigar from the east, afterwards they were shipped from here east, but that is stopped now because the eastern people can work equal with the Chinese here. The coming down in the price of cigars is in the cost of the making-in the labor.

does not require capital and machinery they soon control.

Manufacture of Candles.

I started the candle factory with white labor, and found the great difficulty was that there was not enough of tallow here. Our factory turns out about 60,000 boxes, and another factory about 75,000 boxes. We import to-day not less than 500,000 or 600,000 boxes, at an average value of $3 a box. The manufacture of candles here is not a paying business. We cannot compete, our people having a particular love for goods made outside of San Francisco. In six years, I believe I have never sold fifty boxes among our own people here. I sell them out on Front street, and have a few mines to sustain me.

No factory run but 66 per cent. goes to white labor.

The unreliability of white men the reason he em- ployed Chinese.

I employ Chinese, but not all. There is no factory run on this coast but that you may say sixty-six per cent. goes to white labor. The reason I employ Chinamen is not on account of their cheapness but on account of the unreliability of the white man. I should prefer white labor any time. The eastern manufacturer puts candles on the market here at a less price than I can. They do this to freeze us out, to drive us away.

I have more respect for the white laboring classes than I have for the Chinese. As far as we have gone we could not do without the Chinese, but I do not believe they would make very good citizens ; they do not intend to stay here ; they want to make a little money and go home, and perhaps come back.

Up to the present could not do with- out Chinese, but his conviction is they would not make good ·citizens.

There must have been imported from Scotland last year from eighteen to twenty million bags. We manufacture, on an average, 12,000 a day. When we first started we ordered the machinery from Scotland, and with it a cargo of white people. They came, but they left us ; they thought they could do better. In consequence we employed Chinese labor. The stock does not pay six per cent. per annum. I would not put in another cent if I had $50,000,000. I have found out that factory-business here is a very bad business. Any person who is willing to come and take all my stocks and dividends may have them to-day for cost.

MORGENTHAU

A great many in the state are not opposed to them. The better class The better class of people are in favor of them. There must be from 4,000 to 5,000 in favor of them. Chinese employed in our private families. I believe all our ladies, if they were taken from their employment, would try and beg of them not to Women could not leave the country, and they would say they could not get along without get along without them. them. Since the 4th of July I have had about twenty-four girls in my house. Out of that number about four or five had to be carried away. I even had to send for the police to get them out. Our cook would be so dead drunk we could not get enough to eat. We are scarce in girls to-day, Does not care to good girls. I have three or four grown daughters, and I do not want any in his house. have Chinamen Chinamen in my house, because I am not in love with them at all.

About a month ago I found that two or three Chinamen wanted to get two bits more a day. The moment I got that notice I sent to the intel- ligence office for four or six white men, offering a dollar and a half a day. They came, and because it was common work-shovelling-they would Would rather not stand it. Before I would give a Chinaman a dollar and a quarter I would rather give a white man a quarter of a dollar more.

If we manufactured all the goods that we consume here, we should be the richest people on the face of the earth. I do not call our manufac- Difficulties of turing manufacturing at all. What we are doing here is a drop in the the east. ocean compared with what we import. Another thing we have to con- tend with is the cheap money in the east, which is a great drawback.

give a white man $1.50 than a Chinaman $1.25

competing with

SIMON L. JONES, auctioneer, and a resident in the country for twenty- JONES. four years, sworn and examined :

I have had considerable dealings with the Chinese here, and I have always found them honest in their dealings -- amounting to about a million dollars. I never want to deal with better men than Chinese. I have Chinese honest in lost by them, but not a very large amount ; much larger by others. Some their dealings. laborers have built themselves up as merchants, and some merchants have been sent from China with capital.

WILLIAM H. JESSUP, match manufacturer, and a resident of San Francisco JESSUP. for about twenty-seven years, sworn and examined :

I have had experience in the employment of boys and girls, and Matches. Chinese. My experience with boys and girls is very unsatisfactory. The boys were unreliable, both in constancy to labor and in their conduct about the factory. We tried them about a year. Before hiring Chinese Failed to be able I hired white men, and gave them good wages from the first. They were to manage white boys and girls. not satisfied to take the rate we could pay to compete with imported matches. With the girls I found more difficulty than I did with the boys, and could not do anything with them. They were unreliable and dissatisfied, because they could not make good wages from the first. They could not get their minds down to business. The next change I Hired Chinamen made was to hire Chinamen, with the result of building up a factory to imported matches. and excluded the the exclusion of the imported matches. The Chinese were more attentive to their business ; there was no fooling or leaving work. They would stay and work, and they were satisfied with the wages that they made, depending all the while on the facility in getting along faster, turning out more work after a while, and they would learn. As far as I have seen

332

the moral character of the Chinese is good. I have never seen a steadier, more cleanly set of men in my life than I have had to do with in my manufactory. As far as I know, speaking of my own factory, they sur- pass the white laboring class in cleanliness. As a class the Chinese are the most industrious men I ever knew in my life. I have never seen a Chinaman who I thought was under the influence of liquor.

The treatment of the Chinese has been anything but flattering to the Chinese had been conduct of the whites. I do not know what to attribute this abuse to, abused. unless they imagine that their labor comes in conflict with the labor per- formed by the Chinese. The origin is prejudice which probably emanates If they dressed in from that cause. I have met Chinamen dressed in American fashion, a different habit there would be less abuse. who were generally treated better. I think if they were to dress in a different habit, there would be less of that abuse.

. I have employed them as domestics, and have found them, as a general thing, very good ; and put the same trust and confidence in them as in other servants. As far as my experience goes, I find them very truthful. The introduction of the Chinese has had a very good effect upon the prosperity of the state. Light manufactures would never have succeeded here without the aid of Chinese labor. I should like to see Chinese im- migration limited.

WILLIAM N. OLMSTED, merchant, a resident in China from 1862 until 1870, now of San Francisco, sworn and examined :

The house I was with in China was largely engaged in the purchase and sale of merchandise. We were brought closely in contact with various Chinese merchants.

The word coolie applies to laborers in general. It was used as a term of reproach during the period of emigration to Peru and Cuba, and at a later period when they were shipped they were known among the Chinese themselves, and by foreigners in referring to them, as pigs-those men who were bought and sold like so many cattle-the lowest of the laboring classes. The classes which emigrate to this country are the mercantile and laboring classes. A great many of them are poor and have not the means to pay their passage, etc., but there are always to be found men in China willing to provide funds. The men who ship the coolies generally buy passage-tickets in large quantities, upon which they obtain a discount -- their first profit. The advances which they make are after- wards repaid to them, or agreed to be repaid to them, at a high rate of interest. The security they give in those contracts is very often the personal security given by relatives and friends in China, and if there is default those relatives can be proceeded against in China to the extent of fine and imprisonment. They are generally averse to subjecting their friends to fine and imprisonment on their own account. In that way they are more loyal than almost any other people I have ever met.

Their being inveighled here I would consider an impossibility. The emigration laws in Hong Kong, our own consular laws, and our own laws ought certainly to put a stop to any forced immigration. I have heard of force being used in the Portugese colony of Macao in shipping coolies to Peru and Cuba.

The use of alcoholic drinks in China is very small. Gambling is as com- mon there as it is elsewhere. In Canton I have known the Chinese authorities attempt to suppress it, also in other open ports.

OLMSTED

Prostitution is regarded in China very much as it is here. In Hong Prostitution. Kong all the brothels require a license ; how it is under the Chinese Government I do not know.

The immigrants who are here mainly come from Kwang Tung province Source of Chinese - some merchants, some laborers, and some artisans, the larger propor- immigration. tion of them agricultural laborers. There is nothing that is degrading in labor in China or elsewhere that I am aware of. I think immigration will keep pace with the demand. When the demand ceases the influx will Up to this time ·cease. Chinese immigration up to the present time, I think, has been beneficial. beneficial to the state. I think our trade with China is increasing.

A Chinaman earning $4 a month at home, and who could get here for $25, I think, would not come and work here for $12 a month.

The Chinese can labor here cheaper than the white laborer who has to maintain a family. At the same time I think a great many whites can labor here vastly cheaper than they are doing. I think that a great many employ white labor when they could employ Chinese, and pay more for white labor, in order to obtain a better remuneration for the product of that labor.

There is a large floating population in Canton. I think there are very few of those Canton boatmen who come here. I have observed the Chinamen not more immoral Chinaman in my ordinary every-day walks, and I do not think they are than the whites. any more immoral than the whites. I have heard of their being addict- ed to sodomy, having communication with animals, geese, etc., but I have never heard cases stated by any one who was in possession of facts. Mer- chants, and people with whom I was in the habit of communicating, have stated it.

As to cheap labor and low-priced labor being synonymous I do not A Chinaman not know. Labor may be cheap, and yet it may not be low-priced; it may be equal to an American and can never com- mand the same low-priced, and yet it may be very dear. A Chinaman is not equal to an American, nor will he ever be able to command the same wages that an wages. American will.

It takes a Chinaman some time to acquire our language. Still a great many of them pick it up very readily. They compete with Americans under the management of foremen just the same as a foreign vessel trad- ing in China will employ Chinese crews with an interpreter.

The most of the Chinamen who come here return in a few years. They may come back, but they go home to visit their families. I never knew Six Companies. of any of the Six Companies being engaged in any mercantile operations. I think the Chinese are very prone to resent any offence offered to them.

I have one employed as a domestic, and I find him as honest and as faithful a servant as a man could wish for. I frequently leave the house in his charge, my silver and all quite under his control. He is neat and that could be truthful. I have had several in my employ and I find them all more or desired. less truthful. I generally have found them very faithful and attentive to their duties ; and as to their honesty it is unquestioned. As to my per- sonal knowledge I have nothing to say against them to their disadvantage.

As domestic servants witness found them all

SAN FRANCISCO, November 17th, 1876.

FRANCIS AVERY, a resident in California for eight years, sworn and ex- amined :

Have employed Chinese as servants and found them trustworthy and competent. To some extent they displace white girls.

The witness thinks it is not policy to restrict the Chinese immigration at the present time. The necessities of the people require the gradual In favor of un- restricted im- migration provid- increase in the same proportion with the increase of whites. In favor of unrestricted immigration if the Chinese do not get control of the country. ed the Chinese do Should have some hesitation in saying that they were as good as

Germans.

MACONDRAY. FREDERICK W. MACONDRAY, engaged in the China trade, and a resident of San Francisco for twenty-four years, sworn and examined :

The merchants are honest, upright and have a good reputation for integrity ; never lost a dollar by them in twenty-six years. Contracts made with the Chinese are verbal. Those who emigrate here are of the mercantile, laboring and artisan classes. Their physical condition is healthy and strong. They come here voluntarily ; some have come under contracts but not of a servile nature. Those who have come here have certainly added to the material prosperity of the state; but there are quite enough of them here now. If the people did not employ Chinese they would not come here. The Chinese merchants are satisfied there are enough Chinamen here now, and are not anxious that any more should come at the present time. They are generally an educated class, all being able to read and write. They are sober and industrious. It is owing to public opinion that their presence is not desirable. There are not as many white people here as it is desirable to have. It is better for the civilization of the state that it should be settled up by white people. If more white people came here there would be no harm in having a few more Chinese.

The Cantonese boatmen are of the lower classes. Those here are not all of that class ; they come from different districts around Canton. The northern Chinese do not emigrate at all. The people who live in the boats are poor and honest, and do not belong to the class called river pirates.

FREDERICK L. CASTLE, merchant, and a resident in California for twenty- six years, sworn and examined :

In some vocations the Chinese are a benefit and in others they are a In agricultural pursuits Chinese a benefit ; but detriment. As workers in agricultural pursuits they have been a benefit to the community. They have tended somewhat to interfere with female they have tended labor here, and no doubt the mechanics have suffered somewhat from to interfere with female labor. their presence. White boys are employed in my business packing teas. They make an excellent substitute for the Chinese. If the white boys of this town imitated the Chinese, they could supplement them.

REED

Rev. HIRAM W. REED, Baptist minister, sworn and examined :

This witness's evidence related principally to the evangelization of the Chinese. He condemns in toto the idea and practice of importing prosti- tutes from any country. The moral effect upon the country would be decidedly bad. Leaving out the moral aspect of the question of their A great influx of immigration, there is no objection to their coming here. If their immi- Chinese undesir -- gration was unrestricted and millions came, it would be undesirable. able.

HENRY HART, agent in China of Pacific Mail Steamship Company, sworn HART. and examined :

Witness proved that each Chinaman before he leaves Hong Kong had No Chinaman to be passed by the Consul and each woman had to have a certificate, and Kong withou as emigrants, and as sailors, gave them a high character for docility and passing the Con- fairess in dealing. sul.

CHARLES SONNTAG, chief deputy of the license department, sworn and SONNTAG .. examined :

The licenses range from $4 to $151 a quarter, the uniform license paid by the Chinese being from $4 to $16 a quarter, one or two firms paying $23.50. Among the prominent white merchants of the city the licenses run from $40 to $151 a quarter, according to the amount of business done. From $23,000 to. The total amount collected from the Chinese is between $23,000 and $24,000 a quarter.

could leave Hong:

$24,000 a quarter- collected from Chinese.

Mrs. ANNA F. SMITH, a resident of the city, sworn and examined : SMITH.

In Colorado, witness employed Chinese labor in a laundry, and found Found Chinese them honest, truthful, fair, and straightforward in their dealings ; although as servants their reputation varies. There are good and poor among them. They compare favorably with whites, and in Colorado receive the same wages as white persons. In a general sense the Chinese have invaded the domain of female labor in this city, reducing the prices of their labor and Had interfered the opportunity for them to get it. [Senator Sargent here read a petition signed by fifty-nine working-women of San Francisco, respecting Chinese competition on their labor.] The witness admitted that the condition of the working-women and working-men was deplorable in San Francisco, but in the east, where there were no Chinamen, it was as bad as it was here. Their condition is not caused altogether by the Chinese. White boys and white girls can get employment if they are desirous. Witness No right to ex- not an advocate for the importation of Chinamen in droves, and we clude one race of have no right to exclude one race of people for the sake of building up another. another.

employees honest .. truthful, etc.

with female labor. in San Francisco.

people to build up,

BENJAMIN S. BROOKS, lawyer, and a resident since 1849, affirmed and BROOKS. examined .

The statement of this witness, as counsel for the Chinese, is already given ; and his evidence was substantially the same as his argument.

ANTHONY

GEORGE W. ANTHONY, formerly acting Vice-Consul at Bangkok, Siam, also acting United States Consul at Yokohama, Japan, sworn and examined :

Chinese equal to Japanese ; the latter more pro- gressive.

As to character, business capacity, habits and intelligence the Chinese are equal to the Japanese. In some respects they are superior. I think they are more diligent, more assiduous, and seem to be more thrifty. The Japanese show more progressive spirit, an inclination to adopt our customs, our dress, and our mode of thinking, our style and our accommo- dations. To a certain extent they have adopted our international code of laws.

SAN FRANCISCO, November 18th, 1876.

McHENRY.

JOHN McHENRY, lawyer and a resident since 1850, sworn and examined :

The causes of the agitation against the Chinese may be many ; one cause that has contributed to it is politics, men who desire office try by this means to get it.

LESSLER.

MORRIS LESSLER, who was engaged by Mr. Bee, counsel for the Chinese, to prepare certain statistics, sworn and examined :

Manufactures of San Francisco.

He proved that the statistical statements in reference to all the manu- factures of the city, giving the number employed, both white and Chinese, and the rate per day (Appendix S to Joint Committee Rep.), and also a list of bodies (2,614) buried in the Chinese cemetery (Appendix T to Joint Committee Rep.) were correct.

The following is a summary of Appendix S of the Joint Committee's Report, which appendix was very voluminous :---

19-20ths of grape picking done by Chinese. Mr. J. M. Curtis, wine and spirit commission agent, of Jackson street, states : That from information I have had from the wine-growers personally, the picking of grapes is almost done entirely by Chinese labor, and I can safely say that nine- teen-twentieths per cent. is done by them. Some Chinese are employed in work- ing on the fields or vinebergs, but then generally in company with whites ; the Overseers always overseers are always whites. Our native wines appear to be steadily but silently whites. gaining in public favor. The report for the first nine months of 1876shows a total export by sea and rail of 561,033 gallons of California wines ; the receipts being 1,266,736 gallons of wine, and 43,050 gallons of California brandies.

Trade in native wines. Gerkes's vineyard produces annually 150,000 gallons. California crop for 1875, 8,000,000 gallons of wine and 80,000 gallons of brandy.

Mr. Henry Gerkes's vineyard is producing annually about 150,000 gallons of wine. California has now nearly 40,000,000 of vines growing, three-quarters in bearing condition. The crop of 1875 amounted to about 8,000,000 gallons of wine, and probably some 80,000 gallons of grape brandy.

About 400 Ger- mans employed in Kohler & Co.'s vineyards.

Mr. B. E. Auger, of Battery street, agent for the Buena Vista Vinecultural Society, states that they employ at present sixty-five people ; more than half are Chinese.

Auger employs more than half Chinese.

Mr. John Bach, of Montgomery street, states that they employ about half Chinese and half natives (Mexicans and Indians), all the overseers being white men. Six or eight years ago the Chinese came down to Anahein, and they are increasing very much every year. We pay them from $1 to $1.25 per day, and they have to find themselves.

Half Chinese em- ployed. Pacific Jute

In Chinatown there are seventy-six vegetable stands and forty-five markets. The Pacific Jute Co. employ at present 450 Chinese at $1 per day, and Company employ twelve whites at from $3 to $4 per day.

Mr. E. Grisar, of the California Wool Exchange, states that for herding, washing and clipping sheep nothing but white men are employed. A very few Chinese are employed, but only for minor work. The wool production for 1876 is estimated

450 Chinese.

Messrs. Kohler & Frohling work up annually from three to five million pounds of grapes in their Los Angeles and Sonoma vineyards. They employ during the vintage season from 300 to 400 hands, mostly Germans.

LESSLER

at 52,000,000 pounds, the total being from 1854 to 1876 inclusive, 323,918,668 pounds. California cannot compete at present with Australia or South America in raising fine wool.

Mr. Gerald Douglas, part owner of the sheep ranche Los Guntos, testifies that Sheep: one- there are about 12,000 people employed to look after sheep in the state, seven- eighths white to one-eighth Chinese, the average pay being.$300 per annum and found.

Mr. Bissenger, of Louis Sloss & Co., of Sansom street, states about 175,000 raw beef-hides and over 500,000 sheep-hides are coming yearly to this market from the state, and out of this about 60,000 beef-hides and about 50,000 sheep-hides are tanned here in San Francisco, employing about 300 or 400 tanners.

Mr. J. Landsberger, of Jones alley, the largest Champagne manufacturer in Champagne California, states that he employs about forty whites and twenty Chinese, the manufacture : latter only for minor purposes, as washing bottles, &c.

Mr. J. W. Schaeffer, cigar manufacturer, of Sacramento street, states that at one time they employed only white boys and girls to make cigars, strip tobacco, &c.

Mr. C. W. Kellogg, of the San Francisco cordage factory, states that they at present employ about thirty Chinese at $1 per day, and forty-five white men at from $2.25 to $4 per day.

Mr. S. Lachmann, jr., Market street, says they employ about one Chinaman to four white men, the former receiving $1 and the latter between $2.50 and $3 each per day.

Mr. G. B. Swan, of the Union Box Factory, testifies they employ no Chinese, but seventy-five white men at $2.25, and about forty-two boys and girls at from seventy-five cents to $1.50 per day.

Mr. E. Briggs, of the Consolidated Tobacco Co., states that their factory employs Tobacco : 700 generally about 700 Chinese at $1.50 per day, about seventy-five whites from $1.50 Chinese em- to $2.50 per day, and about 150 Chinese field laborers at $1 per day. ployed.

Mr. Code, fruit and pickle preserver, employs at present about fifty Chinese at Pickle preserver eighty cents, and about fifty white boys and girls at from $1 to $1.50 per day.

Mr. Sydney M. Smith, of Cutting & Co.'s fruit and pickle preserving and cider factory, states that they employ generally about 400 Chinese in summer andabout 100 in winter.

Mr. I. T. Loose, of the California Powder works, states that the company employ Chinese labor only for minor purposes, and for coopering and filling cartridges.

In the manufacture of agricultural implements, whites only are employed, at an average of $3.50 per day ; bag manufacturers, white, average $1.84; bed comforters, white, $1.50; bolt and nut makers, white, $3.25; boiler makers, white, $3; bell foundry and brass works, white, $2.60; bellows factories, thirty-six white, eight Chinese, $1.50 to $2.25; barbers, white, $2.25 ; blacking, white, $2.20 ; belt factories, white, $2.35; box factories (packing), white, $1.25 to $3.50; box facto- ries (paper), white, $1.50 to $3; box factories (tin), white, $1.25 to $3; beds and bedding, white, $2.50; boxes (fancy), white, $2.50; billiard factories, white, $3.30; bookbinders, white, 75c. to $3; bakers, white, $1.50 to $2; broom and brush fac- · tories, white, 75c. to $3 ; box factories (cigar), white, 85c. to $3; boot and shoe Boots and shoes, factories, 491 white, 170 boys, 351 girls, 1,970 Chinese, 50c. to $3; in retail shoe 1,970 Chinese. stores, 700 white, 200 boys, 100 girls, $1.25 to $4; blankets and woolens, 150 Blankets and white, sixty boys, forty girls, 700 Chinese, 90c. to $3 ; candles and soap, woolens, 700 nineteen white, ten boys, sixty-eight Chinese, $1 to $4; coffee and spice mills, Chinese. white, $2 to $3 ; canned fruits, 170 white, thirty boys, ninety girls, eighty Chi- Canned fruits, 80 nese, 80c. to $2.50 ; cracker factories, white, $1 to $5 ; cordage factories, 100 white, Chinese. twenty boys, thirty Chinese, $1 to $4; color and white-lead works, white, $3; Cordage, 30 chair factories, white, $2.20; coppersmiths, white, $3.25 ; cigar manufacturers, Chinese. Chinese, 3,115, 50c. to $2.75 ; coffin factories, white, $3.40 ; coopers, white, $2.50 to Cigars, 3,115 $4; engravers, white, $2 to $4 ; file works, white, $3.40 ; foundries and iron works, Chinese. white, $1.25 to $4 ; flour mills, white, $2.50 to $5; furniture, 1,104 white, seventy- Furniture, 71 one Chinese, $1 to $3.50 ; gasfitters, white, $3 to $5; gilders, white, $3.25 ; glass- Chinese. works, thirty white, twenty boys, five Chinese, $1 to $3; glove factories, white, Glass works, 5. $1.25 to $2.75; glue factory, thirty-five white, ten Chinese, $1.10 to $1.25; gold Chinese. platers, white, $3 ; gunpowder, forty-five whites, sixty-three Chinese, $1.10 to $2.50 ; Glue factory, 10; horseshoe nails, white, $3.20; iron-sheet manufacturers, white, $2.50; jute Chinese. factory, twelve whites, and' 450 Chinese, $1 to $3.50; lead pipes and Gunpowder, 63. works, white, $3.25; mattrasses, white, $1.25 to $3; meat preservers, white, Chinese. $2.25; mirror factory, white, $3.25 ; match factories, twelve white men, twenty- Jute, 450 Chinese. four boys, twenty-five Chinese, $1 to $2.75; maccaroni and vermicelli, white, Match factories, $2.20; marble yards, white, $3.25; mucilage, white, $2.25; nickel-platers, white, 25 Chinese. $3.75; oakum factory, white, $1.25 to $2.25; organ builders, white, $1.25 to $3; pickle preservers, thirty white men, twenty-five boys, sixty-nine girls, twenty- nine Chinese, 90c. to 3; pumps, steam, white, $1,50 to $5; paint (chemical) works, white, $2.50; plumbers, white, $2 to $4; planing mills, white, $2 to $5; paper Rice mills, 3 Chinese. mills, white, $1 to $4; provision packers, white, $2.50; rice mills, five white, three Chinese, $1.75 to $4 ; saw manufacturers, white, $3; saw filers, white, $3.20; soap manufacturers, white, $1.25 to $2.50; safe factories, white, $2.50; stair- building, white, $1.10 to $3.50; shirt factories, twenty-six white men, eighty. Shirt factories,, six girls, one hundred and twenty-nine Chinese, $1.10 to $2.50 ; sugar refineries, 129 Chinese ..

eighth Chinese employed.

half Chinese em- ployed.

Cordage factory : thirty Chinese employed.

employs 50 Chinese. Pickle and cider, 400 Chinese.

Powder company Chinese labor employed only minor purposes: Manufacturing: works and the classes employed_ Bellows, 8 Chinese.

Pickle preservers, 29 Chinese.

22

white, $1.25 to $4; tools for blacksmiths, white, $1.50 to $4 : trunks, etc., white, $1.10 to $2.50; tanneries, white, $1 to $3; tool engravers, white, $3.50; type foundry, white, $3 to $5; upholsterers, white, $1.25 to $4; wood turners, white, $3.25; wire works, white, $3.25 ; wire springs, eight Chinese, twenty- eight white, $1.50 to $2.25.

DOUGLAS. CHARLES D. DOUGLAS, corresponding secretary Central Anti-Coolie Club, eleventh ward, sworn and examined :

The opinion of the anti-coolie clubs is that the Chinaman should be prohibited from coming here. It would be impossible for him to amal- gamate with the white race. His habits, religion, and traditions being different from ours.

TUCKER. GEORGE W. TUCKER, ship-master, connected with the Chinese trade since 1851, sworn and examined :

This witness spoke highly of the character of the Chinese merchants in China, and the behavior of the Chinese on board ship. In regard to the coolie traffic he said the worst of them go to Peru.

HUMPHREY, PATRICK H. HUMPHREY, quarantine officer for two years, and a resident of California for eight years, sworn and examined :

This witness denied that the introduction of small-pox into San Fran- cisco was due to the Chinese.

There should be a national law so as to prevent an overplus of immi- prevent overplus gration or any tainted immigrants coming in.

CHARLES WOLCOTT BROOKS, for seventeen years agent of the Japanese Government here, and a resident of this city, sworn and examined :

This witness was examined before the Canadian Commission, and his evidence will be found under its proper head. [See Minutes of Evidence, p. 28.]

SWIFT. JOHN F. SWIFT, a resident of San - Francisco since 1852, and a traveller in Asiatic countries, sworn and examined :

I consider unrestricted immigration of the Chinese, and have for some years past, exceedingly pernicious and undesirable, and I think that is the settled opinion of the intelligent people of this coast. Those who oppose restrictive legislation are of the more fortunate classes-the wealthier classes. They do it because a labor element like this is a com- venience to the more fortunate class of people ; it makes life easier. The question of domestic servants is one that is apt to bear heavily upon those who are able to keep them-that is, wealthy people. Again, an indus- trious element like this tends to some extent-that is, irrespective now of its disadvantages-to the material wealth of the community. The pres- ence of a perpetual alien element in a community is a great disadvantage.

SWIFT

By this I mean an element that will always be alien, not bringing women with them ; and therefore, the prejudices are great against them. They cannot assimilate, so that the next generation, and the one after, and all Cannot assimilate. the generations will be equally alien and ignorant, without speaking of the present men, the individuals who happen to make up this Chinese community now.

What the Rev. Mr. Loomis said is true as to the strong prejudice of this community ; it is a fact. It may be disagreeable ; you may think it it a pity ; but it is human nature and it is our nature. This pre- The prejudice judice has grown. It is ten times as strong as it was ten years ago. In against them

natural. 1 1852 the Chinamen were allowed to turn out and celebrate the fourth of Has grown. July, and it was considered a happy thing ; in 1862 they would have been mobbed ; in 1872 they would have been burned at the stake.This pre- judice is not confined to one party; it is found in all parties. Then it Degrades labor. degrades our labor ; it makes work discreditable. The doctrine so much heard of, that it takes the bread out of the mouths of workingmen, not so much a point as they think. It does that to those who first come, and, therefore, prevents their coming ; but in time the white men settle down. The tendency is for them to settle down into the condition of a superior class, making money out of Chinese labor. The conditions of life become too easy instead of too hard. Therefore, a Chinese make life boy of seventeen or eighteen can beg and borrow, sponge, bum a better too easy for the white laborer instead of too hard. living, get more bread and butter, and easier, than in any country he can get it by work. In fact young men can get along here without labor. That is the result of the work being done by this element; it makes labor disreputable. White men will not work any more ; they do not want to work any more. White boys do not work, and besides there is not a very good chance for them to work. These Chinese come in and the whites will not work with them ; their prejudice is so great ; and this prejudice is growing ; it is increasing. The influx of the Chinese has had a worse effect upon the respectability and dignity A worse effect on the dignity and respectability of labor than slavery in the of labor than slavery had in the south. There is a stronger feeling here against the Chinese than there is in the south against the ne- groes. I would rather have negro slavery to-day, for negroes are born south. in the country and at least take an interest in it. In the absence of Chinese immigration our manufactures would undoubtedly be set back, Manufactures because we base our community here upon Chinese labor, and the by stopping would be set back transition from that back to a sound basis of homogeneous labor and a Chinese labor. homogeneous society of course would be difficult.

From what I have seen while travelling in Asiatic 'countries, the Inhabitants of inhabitants there have not the slightest idea of a representative govern- understand no ment, or any government except despotism.

As to a change in our naturalization laws, so as to allow them to become citizens, I think the first one that got naturalized would be hanged If Chinese were to a lamp-post when he left the court-room. Perhaps I am going too far naturalized would not be allowed to vote. when I say that ; but he would not be allowed to vote, I am sure. Their being allowed to become citizens would not tend to stop this feeling against them ; it would increase the antagonism ; the feeling would be Enfranchise intensified. The effect of giving 30,000 the franchise would be simply making 30,000 votes for sale.

If Chinamen are to remain in the state, they will change our institu- The presence of tions undoubtedly ; our society will be changed by them; changes are now going on. The existence of Chinese in the state is utterly incom- patible with anything like a government by the people.

Chinamen cannot be Christianized unless they are born here. No Difficulty of Chinaman imported from China under their present system, to stay here Chinese.

Asiatic countries

government but despotism.

30,000 and you put 30,000 votes in the market.

Chinese would ultimately change American institu- tions.

Christianizing

SWIFT

until they die or return without reproducing here, can be Christianized. I do not believe in the sincerity of any Chinese converts at all unless they are born and bred to our religion.

If turned away probably a cry I should not wonder, if the Chinese were excluded, if in two or three for them in a few years there would be a clamor for them, because we have so long had them ; years. and they are so convenient to the wealthy classes of people, that the turning away of 100,000 laboring men in a small community like ours of only 700,000 or 800,000 people would be temporarily a very consider- able injury to the material prosperity of the state for the time. Men, as a rule, are very selfish, and they think more of a dollar than they do of any principle.

none can compete with Chinamen.

I do not think there is a plethora of labor on the coast. An unskilled laborer who comes from the east has difficulty in bridging over the first In their own lines three or five years before he will have learned sufficiently the ways of the country to get a living by the advantages of Chinese labor. Nobody can compete with Chinamen in the things that they do; no white labor can compete with them, because they live so low. In that way they under- work him, and he either does not come here or cannot get the work he would naturally turn his hand to when he first comes. There is no inducement for white men to come here and work at wages that the Chinese work for. It is a question of wages. There is no room for any more labor except Chinese labor. I do not believe you could get so many Chinese here that we could not find work for, and if they were gone I do not believe you could get too many white men here.

Right to exclude from the country any race against which we have a prejudice.

It would be right to exclude from our country any race of men against which we have a prejudice.

Those Chinese who are here I would allow to die and return home, as they will do in the course of time, and prevent any more from coming. I would cut off entirely a new supply.

Had it not been for the Chinese, we ought, in the last five years, to have doubled our population. An immense population came here last year, but it stopped dead, simply because of the impossibility of the immi- grants competing with the Chinamen.

I do not think Chinamen ever think of citizenship either at home or here, or that they know what it is, or know anything about it. They do not intend to stay here long ; they go back in great numbers. If we have 10,000 who come here in a year we have 6,000 or 7,000 going back. I had Chinamen employed as domestic servants in my house at one time, and I have had opportunities of knowing that the cook, or the waiter, goes back, and returns again and resumes their employment as much as three times in five years.

Inferior in honest y and integrity. More confidence in Irish or Germar servant girls than in Chinamen.

As to their honesty and integrity, I think they are inferior to our people in that respect. I can trust European servants with more con- fidence than I can trust Chinese. I can go to an intelligence office at any time and employ an Irish or a German woman that I have never heard of, and put her in the house and go away at once, and I have never had a betrayal of that confidence. I employed Chinese about three years, and I cannot positively say they robbed me.

Some manufac- tures established earlier in conse- quence of Chinese labor.

I have no doubt whatever that very many manufactories were established in this city through Chinese labor that would not have been established at present ; or they would not have been started quite as quick as if we had not had the Chinese labor.

Hypothesis on which it would

not to have had Chinese.

Assuming that the white immigration would have been no greater than have been better it is, and then taking these additional Chinamen, of course 100,000 work- ingmen add to the material wealth ; but if these Chinamen have prevented

Would absolutely exclude Chinese. But for Chinamen should have doub- led population in five years. No idea of citizenship.

SWIFT

an equal number of white men from coming by taking their places them- selves, I say it would have been better if we had not had the Chinamen, and had had white men, which would have been the result without the Chinamen.

To stop the immigration of the Chinese I would be willing to abrogate If necessary all treaty relations between the United States and China ; it cannot be stopped any other way.

would be willing to abrogate all treaty relations between the United States and China.

HENRY H. BIGELOW, manager Home Mutual Insurance Company, and a BIGELOW. resident of San Francisco since 1850, sworn and examined :

The presence of the Chinese poisons any portion of the city where they go. It increases the rates of insurance nearly double ; and where there insurance. are wash-houses from one to three and a half per cent.

Unrestricted immigration of the Chinese has been a very vexed ques- tion, but there is only one opinion with all business men, and that is that it is detrimental to the state. Personally I. am in favor of Chinese immigration, on the ground that it produces wealth here. I was very much in favor of slavery and on the same ground that I was a strong advocate for slavery I am an advocate for Chinese immigration ; but it Would make will drive away the white population and make California what Peru is Peru is to-day. to-day. I endorse every word Mr. Swift said on the ground of our white race.

Poisons the place. Doubles rate of

Detrimental to the state.

California what

Few losses. There are some 5,000 or 6,000 Chinese in the state who own property and insure largely, but they insure everything, both by sea and against fire ; but the rank and file do not insure at all, being merely producers and owning nothing. We have had very few losses. The class that insure are as good business men as you would expect among the same class of The class who Americans or Englishmen, and they are a help to us. Outside of these men of the same insure as good as 5,000 or 6,000, the others are peons or slaves, only our laws do not so standing among whites. term them. The same system is here that is in Peru. They come here Come here under under contract. I do not think they are as free in their labor to hire or contract. not to hire as white people. As workers three Chinamen are about equal to two white men; they stick to their contracts very well, being indus- trious. I would prefer them to white men to do my work ; you can count Can count on on them better, if you contract with the head men. Their exclusion than on whites. them better from the coast would damage us very materially for a time. Their effect Effect on boys on the boys and the agricultural population here is very disastrous indeed ; and agricultural population dis- astrous. but looking at the interest of the state, I do not know whether we should look at that consideration. It takes the labor which the boys would be paid to do out of their hands, because they can labor more cheaply than Makes labor dis- boys ; and this makes labor disgraceful in a measure. graceful.

There is labor for all-cheap labor-but it would be a servile labor like the Chinese labor instead of being free labor as in Illinois and other western states.

The Chinese are very careful with fire. They think it is the devil, and they keep him in due bounds. Where towns have been burned up most Where towns of the fires originated in Chinese quarters. Any one going through their have been burned up the fires as a quarters must wonder why they have not been burned up long ago. It rule originated in is the very nature of the race, that while they are careful with fire they Chinese quarters. are dirty. They will have fire in a coal-oil can right on the floor ; but they are afraid of it and will be careful. Yet they live like pigs. Wher- ever a wash-house is inserted in a block we always steer clear of it. For

the last ten years and up to within the last year and a half the Chinese- quarter has been very free from fire; since then we have had so many that we have declined to insure for them. Within the last year there have been half a dozen fires in Chinatown that have been caused through incendiaries. The fire in Brannen street was lit by hoodlums. I know it as clearly as I know anything about my business. The presence. of the Chinese makes our cities liable to conflagration, so much so that a great many companies refuse Chinese insurance altogether. The Chi- nese create the hoodlums, and then the hoodlums react in the way of hazard from fire. In settling with the Chinese I have no trouble ; they are keen, of course, to get the last cent, but they are not unduly so. They are a very sharp people. I know of several places being burned after threatening letters were sent.

The presence of the Chinese has raised an idle class among us.

KIRKPATRICK JOHN KIRKPATRICK, a resident in California, since 1852, and sheriff of an interior county from 1861 to 1866, sworn and examined :

This witness while in office as sheriff enforced the Foreign Miners' License Law on all who were not citizens, or who had not taken out their first papers declaring their intention to become citizens. The law was im- partially executed against all, whites and Chinese alike.

STEPHEN H. PHILLIPS, formerly attorney-general of Massachusetts, subse- quently attorney-general of the Sandwich Islands, now a resident of San Francisco, practising at the bar, sworn and examined :

The Chinese come to the Sandwich Islands upon contracts of labor which are indefinite and assignable. They are indefinite as to the party `with whom they are to be performed ; they are indefinite as to the kind of work which is to be performed : and generally speaking, there are only one or two limitations, such as that they shall have a certain number of days at the China new year, etc. With that exception they are bought and sold out body and soul to the person who employs them. They are bound for a term of years ; I think it is ordinarily five years.

There is a present necessity for their labor, but that it will ultimately be beneficial I never have thought, and never can think. Importation of cheap labor in the mass I think tends ultimately to degrade the whole character of labor.

It is notorious that Chinamen by their habits and associations keep themselves entirely distinct from other people. We had a few Japanese out there and I was very much struck with the difference between the Chinese and the Japanese. The latter conform themselves very soon to the habits of the country in dress, language and everything. They mix right in and become citizens like the rest of us, but the Chinese keep themselves entirely distinct.

In the Islands there were about 2,000 Chinamen out of a population of about 56,000.

In the Islands there was no family relation among them. There were married Hawaiian a few Chinese women, but very few. A great number of Chinese married A few Chinese women. native women-Hawaiians. They do not remain there entirely ; a great many of them expect to go back, and some few come here.

PHILLIPS

I have seen the contracts already referred to, and it would be some- thing like this :

" That Sam Wang agreed to serve some one else out in China, and to Form of contracts. work for him for the space of five years * * * and to serve him well, and that he was to have so many dollars a month, and so many days at the Chinese new year;" and I think some of the latter contracts had some provisions about sickness and medical care, but there was hardly any- thing else. It was an assignable contract-to him or his assigns. There was an effort made by the Hawaiian government to annul this contract, but it was unsuccessful. The Legislature has been abridging the rights of contracts lately, providing that they should be executed with more form- ality. The government of Hawaii have spent a good deal of money in Government had encouraging the importation of Chinese. They fill the prisons there a good deal. I tried eight of them for murder ; convicted five and hanged Had tried eight three. One of them murdered the French Consul, by chopping his head Chinese for murder. open with an axe while in bed ; another murdered some poor old natives in the Island of Maui and stole their money.

encouraged them.

The employment of Chinese upon the sugar plantations there, brings the sugar-growing states of our own country into competition with Chinese labor.

The Chinese merchants in Honolulu are men of the highest respect- Chinese mer- ability ; men I should be glad to see in any position of trust, or honor, or anything else.

chants of Hono- lulu men of high- est respectability.

If class legislation was done away with, and they were treated the same Unless they canl" as other foreigners, our schools thrown open to their children, and they be made Ameri- cans of, not a good would come into our general system of government, I think they would be element. as good as any other people, but if they keep themselves entirely under the influence of their own system of government and social regulations, I do not think they would be a good element here.

I think some of the discriminations against the Chinese are unjust. As Some of the legis- lation against a lawyer, I think some of the legislation against them will not bear them unjust. inspection.

The planters in the Islands pay from $4 to $5 a month for Chinese The planters paid labor, finding everything but clothing. They paid the parties in China whatever they had to pay.

$4 to $5 a month to the comprador in China.

JOHN R. CORYELL, a resident of the city, formerly consular clerk in CORYELL. Shanghai, also in Canton, sworn and examined :

This witness unhesitatingly asserts that all the Chinese women with Prostitutes. one or two exceptions imported into California are prostitutes, and brought here for the purposes of prostitution, nearly all of them belonging to the ful. boat population of Canton, considered in China the very lowest class. A resident in China for any length of time can easily distinguish them from respectable Chinese wives. They are as distinct as black and white. The Chinese untruth- character of the Chinese wives is that they are chaste ; remarkably so. A Chinaman prefers to tell a lie to the truth.

BLAIR

MATTHEW BLAIR, hay and grain dealer, and a resident of San Francisco for fifteen years, sworn and examined :

This witness, from the location of his place of business, being in the neighborhood where several industries are carried on by Chinese labor, has been in a position to observe the effect of that labor upon the white population of the city. Among the industries is the Mission Woolen Mills, mostly carried on by Chinese labor. When the factories first start- ed, there were some hundreds who came from Lynn, Mass., Cincin- nati, and other eastern places. They have returned because their places were filled by this class of labor, and because they could not obtain em- Chinese kept out ployment. Then, again, there is the candle factory, a spring mattress the whites. factory, chemical works, a soap establishment, three or four tanneries, an oakum factory, and a trunk and box factory, the labor in all these trades being done by Chinese. If these Chinamen were not employed their Degrading to labor. position might be filled by white labor from the east. The effect of their presence is degrading to our laborers.

Take the money out of the country.

Employers, on being asked why they do not employ white people, say they cannot work the two together. That is one of the great difficulties ; the consequence is the Chinese absorb all the labor and send the circulat- ing medium out of the country. There are no persons on the face of the earth under our civilization that can compete with them. The Chinese Chinese so easily are so industrious, so quiet, and so easily trained, that our people cannot train our own children. If we take an apprentice, or anything of that kind, they are so much more troublesome that it creates a feeling against our people and we discriminate against them and call them hoodlums, and have no respect for them.

DURKEE.

JOHN L. DURKEE, fire marshal, sworn and examined .

Witness read a report from the fire wardens which was submitted to the board of supervisors April 20th, 1876, showing the carelessness of the Chinese in that regard, and recommending that an ordinance be passed prohibiting them from making certain additions to the roofs of the build- ings occupied by them.

Liability to fire in consequence of their careleness.

The liability of the city to conflagration is greater from their carelessness than from any other one cause.

Within the last two or three years there have been several cases of in- cendiary fires ; and fires are of frequent occurrence in the Chinese quarter. As a general thing they are not destructive. Mostly all the property in Chinatown is insured. The merchants insure.

SAN FRANCISCO, November 18th, 1876.

ESTEE.

MORRIS M. ESTEE, practising lawyer and owner of farming property, and an old resident in California, sworn and examined :

Injurious.

Because being so industrious and economical drive out white labor.

The Chinese population here, and those who will come, are injurious to the best interests of the state and the nation. They do not assimilate with our people ; in any line of labor that they follow they necessarily drive out intelligent white labor, and they do that for the reason that the Chinese as a class are industrious and economical. Their habits of life

trained no chance to train steady young whites.

ESTEE

are not exactly barbarous, but that is the nearest we can come to it. They live on what no white man can live upon. They have no families, no children to educate or to clothe, and their style of living is so different Free from duties from that of white people that they come in direct competition with the whites, and comforts of white laboring element of the country. This is so much the case that in this city now, I suppose there are not half a dozen persons who do wash- ing, except Chinese, because they underbid any white person in that line. The same is true of all other pursuits. Chinese muscle is the cheapest muscle in the world to-day, and they have got more of it. It is not an intelligent labor. I look upon the Chinese element here, so far as its effect upon the community is concerned, just as I would look upon the admission of a large slave element here. They have no interest in the community. Every Chinaman comes here with the Chinese wall around him, and they are insensible to all our modes of life. They take no inter- No idea of the est in public affairs. They have a regard, I think, for the rights of value of liberty and little of life. property, probably as much so as any other people of their intelligence ; but they have no notion of the rights of liberty, and very little of life. It was not unusual in this state some years since, when there was a diffi- culty between two companies, for one to put up posters offering so much for a certain Chinaman's life. If the government is intended as a govern- ment for men, and not as a mere money-making institution, this is a very Cannot make dangerous class among us. They possess none of the material that makes good citizens. good citizens, except that they are industrious and economical. They help the material development of the country, and they help a few men to make money ; but the making of money is not the highest duty of a The duty of a country ; it is to have an improved society of good men, and moral, country. elevated classes of people.

There are some Chinamen more intelligent than others, but they would not make good citizens, any more than slaves would make good citizens if they were honest. They have not any large intelligence ; they have not Chinese defects. any literature that amounts to anything ; they have a little knowledge of the sciences, and some knowledge of the arts ; they have no notion of music or poetry, or very few of the exalted ideas which distinguish between barbarian and civilized men, except honesty. In many matters they have considerable ingenuity. In some respects they are inferior to the negro, and in some respects they are far superior. In mathematics, that is adding and subtracting, and those things, they understand them better ; and their capacity for making money is a great deal better. The negroes Chinaman and of course have much finer taste for music and for literary attainments negro compared. generally. As to their morality, there is no comparison ; the negro is vastly more moral than the Chinese here. I have never seen a Chinese woman here who is a moral woman. There may be some. As a race the negroes here are more moral. The Chinese are quite as industrious as The prejudice is: either the whites or the negroes. The prejudice against them is free intelligent labor against unintelligent labor.

There have been outrages committed on the Chinese in the state, and there have been fights among themselves where several have been killed- at Los Angeles, for instance-but I don't know whether any one was punished or not. Indignities and assaults are frequent in this city, and whenever the offenders are caught adequate punishment is administered. I do not think the good people of San Francisco, whether they be working people or foreigners, have ever endorsed brutality to the Chinese, because they are objects of pity more than anything else. We have a bummer element here ; but the great mass of laboring people are as intelligent and as industrious, and as enterprising as any like number of people in

free intelligent labor vs. unintelli- . gent labor.

the world. There is a feeling among this class that the Chinese take the bread from the mouths of their children.

Public opinion of this state, among thoughtful men, the laboring element also, except a few people who necessarily use Chinese labor, is overwhelm- ingly against the further immigration of Chinese. I think the public sentiment is in favor of treating those who are here kindly, and in favor of limiting the immigration.

There is one Chinese male adult here to two white male adults. I think the number of the Chinese is underestimated rather than overestimated. When one thousand Chinese come there are one thousand male adults; when one thousand white people come there are probably two hundred or two hundred and fifty male adults.

DELOS LAKE, lawyer, several times judge, six years attorney-general, and a resident of California for twenty-six years, sworn and examined :

Witness is of opinion that the immigration of the Chinese should be restricted, and the unlimited immigration of them an evil to be deplored and guarded against.

The Chinese as a race are quite as repugnant to the white, and heter- odox to our people as the negroes. They are quite as objectionable as a population as the negroes, for the reason that they cannot properly assim- ilate and amalgamate with the whites.

Among the intelligent and disinterested people of California there can be no doubt but that there is a strong and overwhelming opinion against. Chinese immigration.

If they were allowed all the privileges of citizens, and did not assimilate physically, they would still be an inferior race socially, but not legally. They are now inferior in a legal point of view.

They are said to be a cleanly people.

In all cases they do not receive the equal protection of the laws here.

As household servants, they make an engagement and leave very unceremoniously. They are not a truthful people ; their word not. being reliable.

Outside of those pecuniarily interested in Chinese labor the sentiment is against them.

IRVING M. SCOTT, foundryman and manufacturer, and a resident in the state for sixteen years, sworn and examined :

This witness's firm employ 520 men and boys, exclusively white. They have their proportion of labor divided into six distinct classes of work- blacksmiths, boiler-makers, moulders, machinists, pattern-makers, and draughtsmen-all organized. With the boys from the public schools they have had gratifying experience ; they have never less than sixty learning their trades, and they think with those boys they can meet the question of cheap labor in any shape, form, or way, and meet it intelligently, and make a good citizen of the boy, teach him a trade, so as to be self- dependent, a producer. The common sense of the boy is appealed to; if he is a bad boy he is not wanted ; if he is a good boy he wants to stay. It takes four years to learn a branch of the trade. Other trades, similarly circumstanced, by adopting the same rule, could have developed the industries of the state without Chinese aid. . Among the laboring classes there seems to be a strong feeling that the immigration of the Chinese should be restricted.

WHEELER_

EDWARD D. WHEELER, judge, and an old resident of California, sworn and examined :

Witness thinks that public opinion probably favors a restricted immi- Restricted im- gration in preference to an absolute and total exclusion of Chinese coming migration. to this coast hereafter.

They never will assimilate with our population here ; the matter has Cannot assimilate. been decided in the course of a quarter of a century. They still retain their peculiar costume, and follow their original national habits in matters of food and mode of living. They are not politically ambitious. In the district courts the Chinaman is fully protected, both in civil and criminal cases. The negro, before he was given the ballot in this state, showed no disinclination to assimilate with our white people as the Chinese have always shown, although the negro was not a voter. The reason it is A larger number- desirable to limit Chinese immigration is that a limited number can be dangerous. easily managed and controlled ; whereas a greater influx would become a very troublesome and dangerous element. A small percentage of China- men here is desirable. If the naturalization laws were open to them they would all become naturalized. They are not a healthy element in our To enfranchise body-politic, and if they were enfranchised it would be the worst of evils.

Chinese the worst of evils.

JOHN. ROGERS, Rear Admiral in the navy, sworn and examined : ROGERS.

No country can attain secure prosperity except its prosperity be founded upon a population identical in its interests with those of its rulers.

After a short apprenticeship the Chinese can well and cheaply manu- Danger of the facture all our goods, run all our machines, sow and reap all our fields, state. supply the places of all our domestic servants. They can supplant, by their cheap labor, the more expensive American or European workman in every branch of industry. The effect of this will be to build up a state of society such as existed in the southern states before the rebellion.

Chinese to the

In Java, in Singapore, and in Tartary, the Chinese are unquiet, and occasionally they inspire alarm.

They can come to California more cheaply, and, according to their A certain number- standard, more commodiously, than the American or European immigrants, be allowed to annually might and when here they can supplant them. A certain number annually come. might be allowed to come, so that when from these are subtracted those who return there would remain no inordinate increase.

In China the foreign merchant employs only Chinese workmen, under In China foreign the direction of Chinese or foreign superintendents, paying much higher wages to the laborer than a Chinese employer would give for the same service. The servants in European houses in that country are Chinese, and they are paid nearly twice as much as a Chinaman would pay them. Thus the rights and advantages of emigration with labor from one country to the other are not reciprocal.

Our blue flannel and woolen stockings are made in California better than Danger to the they can be made for the same price elsewhere in the United States ; and if Chinese labor comes here without restraint, no reason is apparent why the success in these articles might not attend other similar productions, and California thus become the great manufacturing centre of the United States, and ultimately starve the operatives of our eastern cities or drive them to Asiatic wages and conditions of life. Americans thus reduced would be unfit for the elective franchise, and hence would arise domestic political complications.

merchants employ Chinese.

United States and' eastern labor.

As to miscegenation, Aggassiz has. written the result of his observa- tions in Brazil. The Spaniards and Portuguese are the most mixed race in Europe, and they are, politically, behind the other races. The intermingling of different ethnological divisions is an injury.

Without Chinese the state would have grown fast If there had been no Chinese this state would have grown up with a white population exclusively, and would have grown exceptionally fast with white labor. owing to the great abundance of gold and silver.

Where the white race mingles with As far as the people in China have been trying the experiment with a different color it other races, we find that where the white race mingles with a different is a deterioration. color it is a deterioration.

No doubt Chinese labor has developed the industry of the state to an enormous extent ; but sometimes a man climbs up a ladder to a certain height, and then he finds it convenient to kick it away. Now, while I would not absolutely kick the ladder away, I would not climb any higher. I would not increase the Chinese immigration. I should limit it; it should not be left unlimited. I would not turn away the Chinese ; I would protect them and give them security, as much security as the white man, except the vote. I do not think it desirable that a mixed race should be enfranchised.

The growth of California has been stimulated excessively by Chinese labor. If it would arrive to the same condition without Chinese labor it would not be quite so pleasant to the white man, for the white man gets drunk and strikes ; but it would be more healthy, and not nearly so far advanced.

If you sent the Chinese away now you would ruin a great many people. Without increasing the number of Chinese from this point, let there be white development.

They come principally from Hong Kong.

BLAKESLEE. Rev. SAMUEL V. BLAKESLEE, orthodox Congregational minister, acting editor of The Pacific, and a resident in the state since 1849, sworn and examined :

From my travels and residence in this state, I believe the moral and religious effect of the immigration of the Chinese is very destructive and degrading. Their presence here excludes a large white immigration, and is exceedingly demoralizing to the present white population. It renders labor contemptible. The work of Christianizing them does not begin to equal the power of demoralization and unchristianizing influences affecting our population. I travel 7,000 miles and converse personally with about 20,000 persons in the course of a year. The average of public opinion of the people of this state is strongly opposed to them.

Whatever affects the laboring interests of the country affects the whole country ; anything that comes in competition with them affects us as a people most seriously. I believe that the influx of the Chinese will affect laborers very adversely. A great deal of the looseness of morals is

The United States is interested in this Chinese question; it is the grand question between Asiatic labor and American labor.

A Chinaman is clever, astute, and possesses all the advantages of a good workman. He comes here single, and even if married his expenses would be a very small proportion compared with the expenses of an American citizen. The Chinaman does not get drunk, and he can work on Monday as well as on any other day of the week.

BLAKESLEE

owing to the fact that our good laboring classes cannot very well secure homes of their own. A man can hardly marry, if he is poor, and secure for himself a home in this country as a general thing.

In comparison our morals are much inferior to New York ; we are very San Francisco immoral. The number of places for assignation or prostitution are much greater here than in New York ; our Sunday-carousing, drinking classes are much greater ; and our swearing class, our open, boastful, ruffian class is much greater here, and it is increasing; our stay-at-home class of people much less ; and there are more who spend their evenings in rough places. The Chinese element has a strong influence in bringing about this state of things. Our boys, to a great extent, like to wander through the streets where the Chinese are, and the police tell me they find the Police find boys Chinese women entice boys of eight years of age into their houses for with Chinese nothing. The police of Sacramento frequently find boys eight years old prostitutes. in bed with Chinese prostitutes.

The Chinese are generally industrious, and as laborers are skilful in Chinese can do everything where there is no requirement of intellect. Directed by intel- ligence they are good. They come in conflict with every branch of labor. There is nothing that an American can do, where no inventive genius is demanded, but what the Chinese can do it as well. They come in com- petition in all labor.

The labor market is not crowded but the particular demand for our Restriction. present civilization is crowded.

If the Chinese were restricted so that no more should come, and then allow those who are here gradually to go away, there would be more and more call for white labor, and white labor would be reputable.

The large land holders could not cultivate unless thay had inferior laborers like negroes of the south, like the Chinamen, and like the "bum- ming " white men. If the Chinese went out of the country these large tracts of land would be broken up into 150-acre farms, and the land, in- stead of being impoverished as it is gradually getting now, would be restored much of its richness.

The Chinese are different in religion, different in tastes, different in habits, different in their clannish attachments, different in their race pre- judices, and essentially different in their language. In all these things they are kept separate, and always will be distinct. They can never Can never assimilate and become homogeneous. We have got to be homogeneous or else we are ruined. You could not elevate the Chinese by giving them the ballot. They despise our civilization, and are proud of their own.

Whenever the American comes in contact with a lower class he goes Americans in down towards the lower class ; he may elevate the lower class, but he will lower himself. The most degraded people on the earth are American descend. people who wander among the Southern Pacific Islands among the Indians.

Through the gospel we have Americanized about 500 Chinese out of Out of 239,000 about 239,000 who have come here. If they are not restricted they will continue to increase until they become a vast, distinct, powerful body in our midst. They have converted -hordes of Americans and made them made hordes of abandoned creatures.

The proportion of prostitution among the Chinese is immensely greater than among the whites. As a race they are immensely more licentious More licentious than the Americans.

more immoral than New York.

of 8 years in bed

anything within the grasp of the imitativeintellect ...

Chinese absent monster farms would give way to- small farms.

assimilate.

contact with a

Chinese 500 have been converted to American civiliza- tion; they have

Americans abandoned creatures.

than Americans.

JAMES P. DAMERON, lawyer, and a resident in the state since 1849, sworn and examined :

Mankind is divided into four different groups. First, the black ; next, the red ; next, the brown, and last, the white. Modern scientists have gone on and divided mankind into twelve classes, or twelve different groups. The first the Papuans ; second, the Hottentots ; third, the Kaffres ; fourth, the negroes ; fifth, Australians ; sixth, Malayans ; seventh, Mongolians ; eighth, Arctics ; ninth, Americans ; tenth, Dra- vidians ; eleventh, Nubians ; twelfth, Mediterraneans-named as they ascend. [The witness here read an article on ethnology from the Popular Science Monthly, vol. 4.]

The earliest civilization known to us is that of Egypt, which, perhaps, was borrowed from China ; and from this foundation it is commonly said all modern civilizations are derived.

Theodore Parker, speaking of the Caucasian race, says : "The Cau- casian differs from all other races ; he is humane ; he is civilized and pro- gresses. He conquers with the head as well as with the hand. It is intellect after all that conquers, not the strength of a man's arm. The Caucasian has been often master of the other races ; never their slave. He has carried his religion to other races, but never takes theirs. In history all religions are of Caucasian origin. All the great limited forms of monarchies are Caucasian ; republics are Caucasian. All the great sciences are of Caucasian origin ; all inventions are Caucasian ; literature and romance come of the same stock. All the great poets are of Cau- casian origin. Moses, Luther, Jesus-Christ, Zoroaster, Buddha, Pytha- goras, were Caucasian. No race can bring up to memory such celebrated names as the Caucasian race. The Chinese philosopher, Confucius, is an exception to the rule. To the Caucasian race belong the Arabian, Per- sian, Hebrew and Egyptian ; and all the European nations are descen- dants of the Caucasian race."

In regard to the Chinese language a recent work gives the number of characters in the language at about 52,325, which does not include all the technical characters, and the difficulty of learning the language pre- vents the masses from ever learning it. Therefore, they remain ignorant, and it leaves its literature in the hands of a few who devote their life- time to study. More time is consumed by the Chinese student in the mastering the written language than is given in other countries to the acquirement of a liberal education, and it is said that there are not over 300 scholars in China who can read the classics. The masses are all educated in the rudiments, so that they know a few characters, and can make a few, but to them the classics, which comprises a large number of books, they cannot read or understand any more than if they were written in Arabic or Hebrew. A merchant may understand the characters of his trade, but may not be able to read any other books; and this reason is assigned by some writers why China has not made any progress in the last few thousand years.

The total population of the human races amounts to about 1,350,000,000. About 150,000,000 belong to the woolly-haired races, and about 550,000,000 belong to the Mongols, and about the same to the Mediter- ranean races. These two races are the most highly developed, far sur- passing all other human species in numbers of individuals. The relative number of the other ten remaining species fluctuates every year, and that according to the law of development-the survival of the fittest. In the struggle for life, the more highly developed, the more favored and

DAMERON

larger groups of persons possess the positive inclination and the certain tendency to spread, and at the expense of the lower and smaller groups, which must give way.

Thus the Mediterranean or Indo-Germanic species have, by means of Indo-Germanic higher development of their brain, surpassed all other races and species in stands first. the struggle for life, and have already spread the net of their dominion over the whole globe. The Mongolian species is the only one that can successfully, in any respect, compete with them. For the first time in the history of the world they have met face to face on the virgin soil of California. These hardy Mongolians, with their peculiar civilization, have met us at the Golden Gate, and have begun the contest for the ascendency. The large numbers here, and the constant increase arriving daily, and the nearness and accessibility to the hive they swarm from, have alarmed the whites of California and the Pacific coast, and well they may be alarmed. To increase their numbers here would make To increase the this country an Asiatic colony. It is beyond question they can compete number of Chinese with the whites in almost all branches of industry. They are willing country an Asiatic will make the to work more hours and live on less, live on what a white laborer colony. would starve on, the white man being a flesh eating animal. To throw open the country to their immigration, and foster and encourage it as we do the European, would in a few years mean to be overrun, so that the white man would have to emigrate, or begin a war of races. Learned ethno- logists have shown that any race of people whose average heads do not Any race whose exceed a brain capacity of over eighty-five cubic inches are not capable of average heads do not exceed 85 a free form of government ; that there is no instance in their history that cubic inches are they evser have attempted it. The average of Chinese and American not capable of free government. negro is about eighty-two to eighty-three cubic inches of brain-capacity, while the Indo-Germanic race reaches an average as high as ninety-two to ninety-six cubic inches of brain capacity, and some going as high as 125 cubic inches.

Not having the brain capacity, they never can attain the high position Have not the of being free men and using the ballot wisely and honorably in the selec- tion of the best and purest men to office to rule and govern them, but would look upon it as something put into their hands by which they might make a few dollars at the risk of liberty and human progress ; and such a class of voters are dangerous to republics, and their immigration should be looked upon with disfavor by all true lovers of freedom and progress, for it is a hard struggle to preserve a free form of government even with the highest type of the Indo-Germanic races. It has heretofore proven a failure, for there are a vast number of them that fall below the average of eighty-five cubic inches of brain capacity ; and as we have already reduced the average below that of England or Germany, it may endanger the cause of liberty and free government to introduce any more of the inferior races. Science has shown that the brain capacity of any animal is determined by the volume of its brain. The Gorilla has about Inferior races. forty-five cubic inches of brain, while the lowest of the negro or human race is not less than about sixty-three cubic inches, while the negro of the United States rises to eighty-two inches ; but this is owing to the mix- ture with the whites, as there are but few pure African-blooded negroes in this country. This raises them to the average of the Chinaman, while the average of the Anglo-American rises to ninety cubic in- Anglo-American ches, the English to ninety-six cubic inches. The facial angle of the 90 cubic inches, the English 96. Gorilla is at an angle of 40°, while the negro rises to 85° and the white race to 95°.

As the Chinese arrived, thousands of years ago, to the height of their

brain capacity to become citizens

Chinese willsuffer brain capacity, they will, like the Indian, who is a Mongolian, suffer exter- extermination rather than adopt western civiliza- tion. mination rather than change their mode of life and adopt western civili- zation. As they are an inferior race to the white man in brain capacity, it perhaps would be as well to let him remain where he is, and encourage trade and friendly relations. As they have a deep love for their own country, let them remain where they are, being of a different type and a different civilization. As no two races can live together on equal terms, and not amalgamate, nature has placed its mark in color and odor.

All naturalists will tell you that every species is protected by nature in its color or its odor, or something of that kind. It is useless for a government to attempt to remove it, for nature has, in its wisdom, made certain distinctions, and placed certam safeguards around the Anglo- Saxon race that it never has amalgamated with the inferior races, but in all their emigrations have carried their families with them, while the Latin races have amalgamated, and we see the effect on the races in the United States and South American states-amalgamation with inferior races. Their offspring generally inherit all the vices of the superior races, and but little of their virtues.

As they are of less brain capacity, falling below the Anglo-Saxon, which averages from ninety to ninety-six cubic inches of brain matter, while the Chinaman falls below eighty-five cubic inches of brain matten, to preserve the harmony of society it will perhaps be the best to dis- courage their immigration. If they could be confined to the reclaiming of tule-land and its cultivation, and to the growth of rice, silk worms, and the manufacture of silks, they would be an advantage. The admis- sion of the Chinese immigration would not be so dangerous if they were restricted in certain classes of labor ; but the moment they set foot on the soil they have a right to enter into any branch of business. They gener- ally select that which pays the best and easiest, thus depriving a certain class of laborers of employment, who are forced to seek a living by pros- titution, which debases them and destroys their usefulness as wives and mothers, for the poor white women have to work for a living. Washing, sewing, cooking, and nursing are always open to them, which affords ready employment to the unfortunate who are forced to seek a living as menials and servants. This last resort of the unfortunate and poor is rapidly being monopolized by the Chinamen, and if they could speak the English language readily, would drive out all competition before them. They take the places in the factories, where the labor of the poor boys. and girls might be utilized, throwing them on the streets to grow up. in idleness, to be hoodlums.

The reversionary tendency and the unfortunate of all races have a large supply of this kind of labor that have to be provided for as cheap. laborers or supported at the public expense, and to fill it up with cheap labor of another race is unnatural and unjust. It at once disorganizes society, engenders an ill-feeling between the two different races, for the poor and unfortunate whites will feel that their places are taken from them and given to another race, when they might be able to earn an honest living, however humble ; that they are unable to compete with the hardy, economical Chinaman, who has no family to support, no chil- dren to educate, and no taxes to pay, no churches to contribute to, and .no God to worship, who are cold and selfish, almost destitute of feelings Low in moralsand of sympathy or charity, intent on making money, that they may return physically contaminating. to their native land ; like a swarm of busy ants, coming with nothing, and taking all they can get away with, impoverishing the country and enrich- ing their own ; bringing their loathsome diseases and leprosy, which has. not heretofore made its appearance in the virgin soil of America.

DAMERON

They are our antipodes in every sense ; they are our opposites in almost Contrasted with everything ; their seat of honor is on the left, while ours is on the right ; the whites. they wear white for mourning, we black ; they think it no harm to lie and cheat, we do ; they think it no harm to kill a child or drown a girl- baby as a blind puppy, we do ; they worship the Evil Spirit, for they say they have nothing to fear from the Good Spirit, while we worship the great Good Spirit and detest the Evil One.

Like wine and water, we will never mix, and in the great struggle for Self-preservation existence the Chinaman will come to the top every time if left to free and first law of nature. equal competition. The first law of nature is self-preservation, and to do this Chinese immigration must be discouraged. In a free country there cannot well exist two different classes or races of people possessing a dif- ferent brain capacity. The cry of oppression will be raised that these inferior races must have the ballot to protect themselves ; and whenever If the dominant it is necessary for the dominant power to put the ballot in the hands of power found it Chinese to control the elections of California and the Pacific coast it will Chinese votes it be done. It was placed in the hands of the negroes of the south, who are far would be done. below the Chinese in intelligence, belonging to one of the lowest types, while the Chinaman stands next to the white man.

These, united with the negroes of the south, will endanger the elective franchise, and sink it below that average of intelligence and virtue that is necessary to preserve a free form of government.

necessary to give

It was necessary to give the negro the ballot to protect his rights ; so it Will have to be will be with the Chinaman whenever the time comes and he demands it. given the ballot As the vexed negro question of the south has and will endanger the rights. to protect their liberty and harmony of the government-and it was an evil day to America when they were first introduced, under the plea of necessity, that they were good laborers and made better servants than the Indians-so the vexed Chinese question will in time grow with an increase of num- bers, and we may have two vexed questions instead of one. The negro question one hundred years ago was of little or no importance. So it may be with the Chinese question to day. But one hundred years hence they may control the entire Pacific states if left to an unrestricted immigration. May overrun the They are learning our language, and they find out they can do better by Pacific coast. staying here, as many of us did who came in the early days of California. None thought of staying, but necessity forced us to stay, until we got weaned of our prejudices and love of home. So it is with the Chinaman. California did not prosper until we commenced to make homes here and our families. The Chinaman takes all the surplus wealth he earns out of the country ; and he helps to impoverish by taking all away. But it is better to do this than have him stay and become a citizen.

I am not a Darwinian, but I believe in the doctrine of evolution. [The witness here read a paper pertaining to the Chinese Empire, its area, ex- ports and imports, tonnage of foreign vessels entering her ports, revenue, converts, religion, form of government, marriage, army and navy.]

JAMES PATTERSON, engaged in saw manufacturing, for ten or eleven years, PATTERSON. in San Francisco, sworn and examined :

This witness employs from twenty-five to thirty white men and boys Has no trouble steadily, and never has any trouble with them ; he speaks very highly of with his boys. the boys in regard to their reliability and industry.

23

JOHN ARNOUP, journalist, a resident on the coast for fourteen years, sworn and examined :

Witness cited an instance of the inhumanity of the Chinese in refusing to give a starving man food, after being asked for it five or six times in the day ; he had been among Indians and never knew them to be guilty of that. He has seen white men supplanted by Chinamen at a less rate of wages. It is not desirable to enlarge the immigration, and public opinion favors legislation to this end.

DAVID C. WOODS, superintendent of the industrial school, sworn and examined :

The Chinese are a curse to this community, both morally and physi- cally. Physically they introduce venereal disease among the boys. There is hardly a day since I have been at the school that I have not had boys under treatment by the doctors, and they have invariably got the disease from Chinese prostitutes, so the boys say. Probably one-twentieth of the boys I receive have it. One boy had to be sent to the county hospital for scientific treatment.

The presence of the Chinese affects the employment of boys. Chinamen hire so much cheaper. The boys are good average boys and would do well if they had a chance.

The boys being inoculated with the disease, it extends to the white girls, also. The hoodlum element is rampant, and will not let the girls alone. On coming to the school they acknowledge they have been with these young men. The thing is introduced here by little Chinese girls. There is a certain disease introduced by them called the China-pox, distinguished from other syphilis by that name.

ROMULUS C. GALLEGO, superintendent of a bag-factory for eight years, and a resident of the city for fourteen years, sworn and examined :

As far as Chinese labor goes, we can manufacture just as cheap with white as we can with it, if not cheaper. We can get all the hands wanted and more. In the busy season we employ 200 hands-men, boys and girls-and have no difficulty in managing them. Two years ago we were offered all the Chinamen we wanted at fifty cents a day ; at that time we were paying $1.50 to the girls. I think the object was merely to make an inroad into our business so that they could understand it and then carry it on themselves.

As to the willingness of boys and girls for work I may mention that on . the 3rd of July I called all the boys and girls up, and said "I am very busy ; I want to work ; are you willing to work ?" I only had two dissenting voices out of the whole of them.

To a certain extent Chinese labor is reliable, but not more so than white labor. If you hire white boys and girls and treat them properly, they become attached to their work and you cannot drive them away. You can keep them just as long as you want them. On the other hand, you hire a Chinaman from another man. You go to the boss and hire so many, and he furnishes so many ; and their system is so good that the Chinaman will not leave that place until he has permission from the boss

GALLEGO

or from the company that he belongs to. That is the reason a great many are employed ; but white boys and girls can be employed here as profitably as Chinese. White labor is better than semi-servile labor.

JOHN W. DWINELLE, lawyer, and a resident in California since 1849, DWINELLE. sworn and examined :

I do not consider it desirable to have the Chinese here. They are not Undesirable .. capable of assimilating with us. They do not come here with the inten- They cannot assimilate. tion of growing up with the country, but only to acquire a certain amount of money and return to their own country. They have no desire to acquire our language, or assimilate with our institutions, as they are inca- pable of doing so. Cheap labor is not desirable in California. We should have cheap capital rather than cheap labor.

The land-killing system of California is a curse to the country, and it is Land-killing sustained mainly by Chinese labor. It is better for California that our fornia a curse. lands should remain waste than be wasted, for then there would be a pos- sibility of their being occupied by a homogeneous race.

system of Cali-

The effect of Chinese immigration upon the present white labor is that it degrades it.

I regard the existence of two different populations as a morbid hybridism which is disastrous to both parties.

I would not favor the experiment of giving them the elective franchise Better never to- to improve their condition. As to there being too many Chinamen here, have had a Chinaman. it would have been better if we had never had any, if we had never come in contact with that race. I do not believe he belongs to us at all. He , belongs to the human family, but I believe he belongs to a race that has ripened and is now rotting. I certainly would prohibit any further im- portation of them.

The agriculture of California grew up simultaneously with the intro- duction of the Chinese.

Their notion in regard to our institutions is that they are inferior to Chinese think their own.

American institutions

In 1870, I published a pamphlet in London and Paris, in which I inferior to their stated that Chinese immigration was a pest and a detriment to California. own.

I do not think that the Chinese form any comparison with the French · at all.

CHARLES T. JONES, district attorney of the city and county of Sacra- JONES. mento, and a resident in the state since 1854, sworn and examined :

The Chinese are a great deal more likely to commit crime than the Chinese disregard other races here, and they are a great deal harder to convict. They the law. have no respect for our laws at all. They have courts wherein they try cases that occur between themselves, although such courts are in violation of our law ; and they respect the decision of such a court in preference to our own.

In regard to the Chinese advertising to take life, witness submitted some papers which were taken from a room, after arrest of its occupants, where they had been deliberating on two Chinamen. One paper offered $2,000 for the life of one Wong San Chee, and $600 to destroy the name of Wong Yee Nui; if only wound and not kill, only one half. The

other paper was a solemn compact proposed for adoption by the members of the company in regard to the expulsion of the latter.

"Their testimony. The Chinese have no regard for an oath at all. They use our courts for the very reverse of what they are intended. Perjury is committed by white people, but not to the same degree as committed by Chinese.

PETERSON. CHARLES H. PETERSON, an officer of the Order of Caucasians, sworn and examined :

Public opinion. This witness presented to the Commission several petitions, signed by residents in Montero county, against the Chinese, expressing the opinion of the people of that county generally. He also handed in a circular of the Order of Caucasians, the object of the society being to protect labor.

RUSSELL. JOEL RUSSELL, farmer, sworn and examined :

My opinion and the opinion of the farmers in my neighborhood is that the presence of the Chinese conflicts with the interests of the farmers. It is not true that the white laborer is a bummer and a drunkard, and it is decidedly untrue in regard to the small proprietary farmers. Nine-tenths of the agriculturists throughout the San Joaquin Valley and my own county are in favor of legislation restricting Chinese immigration.

(O'DONNELL. CHARLES C. O'DONNELL, physician, and a resident in the state for twenty- six years, sworn and examined :

I have lived in the midst of them for over twenty years, and have visited all their gambling-houses and bagnios. Their habits are very immoral, low, degrading, and filthy. In regard to filth, the stench in that vicinity is sufficient to produce any disease.

They were the first that introduced small-pox here about five years ago. This last time it originated with them. The steamer Crocus brought a cargo of some 830, termed by the captain pirates, with small- pox among them. The coolies that come here are of the very lowest type.

None but capitalists, and those who make money out of them by swind- ling, are in favor of them ; seven-tenths of the inhabitants of the state of California are opposed to them.

Nineteen-twentieths of the Chinese women here are prostitutes. The disease that they have spread among young men is horrible. The virus of the coolie is almost sure death to a white man. There are cases of syphilis among the whites that originated from the Chinese prostitutes which are incurable. The Chinese are not as much affected by the syphilis as the whites.

There are one hundred and fifty cases of leprosy in Chinatown now.

WILLIAM VALE, sworn and examined :

In the latter part of 1862 I was commissioned by several residents of California, among them Mr. Hollister, to procure farm laborers, gardeners,

VALE

cooks, and a general assortment of household and farm servants from Europe. From the eulogistic letters in my possession from some employers of these immigrants, and from the position some of them have attained through their own labor, they are undoubtedly good classes of citizens. Fifty thousand eligible immigrants could be procured from dif- ferent sections of Europe, both male and female, and would be 'preferable to those brought from Asia, and would be invaluable.

HENRY DEGROOT, miner, sworn and examined :

DEGROOT.

The effect of the presence of the Chinese here has been very detrimental The Chinese as to the labor interests, and to the mining industry also. They were hired miners. first in placer-mining, and then in drift-digging to some extent, and final- ly in hydraulic-mining to very great advantage, except for moving stones and working in the pit ; and as they became educated to the business they greatly displaced white labor, and now we have them employed in every They displace kind of mining as laborers at good wages. This operation is constantly white labor. going on and displacing white men. In former days we would not allow them to come in ; but that is a long time ago. For fifteen years they have not been molested any more than whites. There is not a single mining town in California but what has a Chinese quarter planted in the Effect of China- centre of it, as here. The women are very undesirable, and many of the cities. men are gamblers. The presence of these is corrupting the youth of the inland towns at a fearful rate. They are not only coming to California, but the vessels that go from Oregon to China bring back cargoes of Chinese who go silently up the Columbia River and drop into the mining regions adjacent to Oregon, as well as into Idaho and Montana. I never met a laboring man or a miner, who did not employ labor, but what was dead opposed to the Chinese. On the other hand, there is a class in the mines in favor of their presence here-men who are aggregating small claims into large mining estates and employing Chinese to run them, just as farmers and manufacturers do here. The merchants in the mining regions are averse to them generally.

The Chinese pick all the berries to the exclusion of girls, and they are Effect on girl- hiring land and raising berries, and pretty soon will monopolize the whole labor. business. The same with the cigar trade. One firm advertised for girls to learn the business ; they did so, and after seeking employment in other firms they were told that they would not be taken on if a handsome sum accompanied them ; Chinese could be employed cheaper. The same with sewing-machines. I can take you to a cellar where there are thirty Chinese live too Chinamen running sewing-machines, who eat and sleep in that cellar, and cheaply. whose living does not cost them forty cents a month apiece ; not thirty cents, perhaps, so cheaply do they live. It is utterly impossible for us to compete with them and live.

If there had been no Chinese here the white population would Effect on white have been much greater than it is at present. I have seen whole immigration. car-loads of emigrants going east within the last year, discouraged from remaining here in consequence of the presence of the Chinese. While a few men would not have been so rich, the great mass of the white people would have been a great deal better off in the absence of the Chinese. Morally, we can hardly estimate the injury that they have inflicted upon us by degrading labor, by injury to the juvenile population, more especially in the inland mining towns.

In their absence probably some branches of industry would not have

towns in western

been developed to the same extent that they are; but they would have had a more healthful foundation, and their absence would have had a tendency to the distribution of the large landed claims, which can only be worked by their cheap labor ; they would have been sub-divided into homesteads and sold to people who wished to settle. There should be some method of checking any further immigration of this people.

In most of the large tanneries Chinamen are employed. The manufac- ture of boots and shoes by Chinese is a disadvantage to white laborers. Wherever Chinese labor comes in competition with our mechanics they are poor, and growing poorer all the while. If Chinese labor was driven from the manufacture of boots and shoes, instead of their being only 250 girls employed in that industry there would be 2,000 or 3,000 of them.

In regard to mining, there are 4,000 Chinese in the neighborhood of Oroville, in one community ; and they are to be found from one end of California to the other, even in underground mines. White miners would be glad to work the diggings the Chinamen work, but they will not work for the same hire that a Chinaman does. The gold extracted from the country by Chinamen-many millions-goes to China.

THOMAS W. JACKSON, foreign commission agent, formerly a resident in China, but of San Francisco since 1867, sworn and examined :

People are very much mistaken as to the extent of Chinese education. They all understand a few characters, but the written language is so exceedingly intricate and abstruse that it requires a life-time to learn it. A carpenter will know the characters for different kinds of wood and labor, and they all know the figures, etc., the bricklayer will know the character for bricks, and the miller will know the character for flour and wheat ; but there are very few of them who are able to read a letter upon any general subject, and even those who profess to have a knowledge have spent years in studying it. If the Chinese require a letter to be written they go to a literary man to have it written for them. They cannot write it.

So far from washing themselves habitually from head to foot, they do not even change their clothes generally for several months, especially in winter. Most of them do not wash themselves thoroughly more than three or four times a year. It is customary for them to sleep in their clothes. Their cleanliness and their education are generally very much over- estimated.

Their morals are such that no English or American family in China having children will allow their children to come in contact with them more than is absolutely necessary, their influence being considered not only injurious but positively dangerous. I cannot recall more than about two Chinamen whom I should consider to be strictly and decidedly honest. In business they invariably tell lies. They invariably falsify, and, as much as possible, use false weights and measures among themselves. In the Canton trade it is not so much the case. Where they are honest it does not arise from conviction, but from the adage "honesty in the best policy." They do not expect honesty among themselves.

In China the compradors almost invariably do the whole of the business, do the buying or selling of six or seven establishments, employ four or five house-boys, and seven or eight coolies, and make fortunes besides. They always make money whether the foreign houses do or not, because they

JACKSON

get a commission from the buyer and a commission from the seller, on everything bought.

The Chinese multiply so' rapidly that whenever they get a foot-hold into any country, they almost take possession of it. Polygamy is common in China. Every woman is married, and every woman produces children. They are very prolific, more so than in other countries ; and where they Chinese prolific. get a foot-hold in a very short number of years they become the greater part of the population. That is the case in Singapore, which was only In Singapore. founded a few years ago by Sir Stamford Raffles ; the Chinese had no footing there whatever, and now there are probably three or four China- men to one of the other population. If they were allowed the privileges of citizenship here, the result would be that in two or three years they would outnumber the whites three or four to one. They can get money J very much easier here than in their own country.

Where they are in any very great numbers and feel very strong they Nearly all the are more dangerous to foreigners than otherwise. The worst classes are Chinamen in in the southern part, especially in Swatow and Canton, and all the Chinese Canton-their who have ever come to California so far have come from the province of character. Kwang Tung, excepting about sixty who once came from the neighborhood of Shanghai, some years ago, and who have all disappeared. They have no conception of our government or the principles that underlie it ; and I have never met a Chinaman who had a right idea of his own.

California from

LEWIS M. FOULKE, supervisor of internal revenue, formerly miner, and FOULKE. collector of taxes, and a resident in the state for twenty-four years, sworn and examined :

I do not consider Chinese labor desirable ; it has the same tendency to Reasons why a degrade free white labor that slave-labor in the south had. A larger importation would be very undesirable, for the reason that a population undesirable. with ideas of government so utterly foreign to those of ours, and the presence of a vast number of that class of people different in color, habits of thought, traditions and religion, is apt to create caste, and probably would lead to civil war. They cannot assimilate to our institutions.

As supervisor of internal revenue I find that over one-half of all the Chinese as contri- frauds and of all the violations of the law were committed by the Chinese. butors to the revenue. The population being 30,000 Chinese against some 225,000 or 230,000 whites. The frauds were committed principally in the manufacture of cigars and cigarettes without the payment of the taxes; the re-use of stamped boxes ; the manufacture and sale of friction matches, without paying the stamp-tax on them ; also the manufacture of an article called samsony, a sort of Chinese whiskey distilled from rice. A very small number pay the income-tax. The non-payment of these taxes added very much to the injury of those who were engaged legitimately, and compelled to pay their taxes.

I have employed Chinese labor in mining but prefer white. I have Witness's expe- never had any difficulty in mining with white labor, and in getting good miner. rience as a men. My preference for them is from the fact that they usually have their families and settle in the country.

More than three-fourths, I think- fully seven-tenths, of the intelligent people of the Pacific coast are opposed to the further immigration of the Chinese, or at least are in favor of restricting the further immigration to Undesirable to a small number. Those who are here it would be undesirable to remove ; remove those who are here. I think it would be unjust to all parties concerned.

larger Chinese immigration 1 .

The free white laborers generally consider the Chinese as coolies or slaves.

The negro here is far superior to the Chinaman principally from contact with the white race.

The effect of elevating a Chinaman to a voter would be fraught with . great dangers.

JOSEPH G. CADIZ, a resident in California from 1849 to 1854, and from 1865 to the present time, and a traveller during the interim in South America, Buenos Ayres, Chili, and Peru, sworn and examined :

While in Peru Chinese were imported there under contract at Hong Kong. They went there for a certain consideration, under parties pur- chasing them and taking them to Peru. On their arrival they were sold by one, or in lots of tens, twenties, fifties, hundreds, and so on. There were several lines of sailing vessels bringing them out continually, the ships being overcrowded ; and on many occasions there had been revolu- tions on board, risings and mutinies among them. They were sold at $350 to $400 apiece. When deeded to a party, whatever the number might be, they were taken in a mass. This sale or lease was for a term of eight years. These slaves were bound over for that amount of money, and the buyer was to pay each one of them four dollars a month, of their cur- rency, and find him in his clothing and victuals. They were bought and sold as slaves, and recognized by the laws of the country ; and they were of the same class that come from Hong Kong to California. In Costa Rica, between 1871 and 1872, the government tried the experiment of a cargo of 800 of them. They were purchased at Hong Kong and taken there and sold. The same system prevails here only under a different guise and form. The coolie-trade is very active now ; the same as in Peru.

They are ignorant, and stupid, and very dishonest, and, in my opinion, the most inferior race there is existing, the class that is here.

JAMES M. BASSETT, journalist, editor of Los Angeles Herald, and a resident in California for twenty-five years, sworn and examined :

The Chinese who are here and are coming here tend to make the rich richer and the poor poorer ; their labor has been beneficial to a few people and injurious to the masses. Some enterprises have been pushed forward more rapidly than they could have been without the assistance of some such labor as the Chinese. In the common occupations of life their labor has been a disadvantage to the people; and that, I think, is the opinion of the masses. It tends to degrade white labor, the impres- sion prevailing among the laboring classes that the Chinese are brought here as slaves.

Public opinion of the state would be in favor of protecting those who are here, and preventing any further immigration. Nine out of ten, outside of the few who are benefited largely by Chinese labor, would entertain that opinion.

In regard to the future of the state : politically, if the Chinaman ultimately becomes a voter, and they continue to come, he will hold the balance of power in a very short time ; morally, the effect is bad. If the Chinese had a vote in San Francisco it would exceed that of the whites.

APPENDIX B.

VICTORIA, B. C., October, 1884.

NICHOLAS FLOOD DAVIN, Esq.,

Secretary, Chinese Commission.

DEAR SIR,-Although I did not seek to be examined before the Chinese Commission while in Victoria, and have not officially received the paper of queries issued on the subject, yet I may be permitted to hope that you will lay before the Commissioners the answers as given, which are appended, together with the following remarks upon the subject of enquiry :-

The existence of an uncontrolled immigration under any circumstances is full of dangers. The first duty of a Government is the well-being of the governed ; and the application of some restraint upon immigration, and a complete control over it, is a primary duty as curative of present as well as preventive of future evils. No one can complain of cruelty or injustice being inherent in the course of action taken in the United States in the matter of white immigrants, who may import diseases, spread poverty, or become burdensome, turbulent and dangerous to society. And the like course of action may be found imperatively necessary in respect of the Mongolian immigration into this province.

Now, if any one is acquainted with the effects of a system of poor laws, and of the extent to which the working out of this may press upon the springs of industry, and in particular when the cost is superadded to taxation for the administration of justice and the preservation of the peace, the question of immigration assumes an alarming magnitude. In British Columbia, which has at present no poor laws, and is only slightly taxed for internal administration, the question may seem remote or unreal. But if cheap workers, say Mongolians, come in numbers and thereby exclude the white laborers, it may be asked : will this be cheaper in the end and all round, when everything is paid for, and when a Mongolian labor-league may have to be faced ? Or again, if these may not prove exclusive absolutely of white labor, then both classes must compete at rates ruinous to the white laborer ; and white man and Mongolian alike, after the inevitable depressions and difficulties incidental to every community (nay, even though supposed exempt from them) must go down, sinking into poverty and becoming permanent burdens on capital.

But while, in theory, "demand and supply " are correlative, an application of this .. principle to Mongolian labor in British Columbia is considerably modified by the force of the two following facts :- First, the enormous over-population of China, aggregated on. its eastern frontier and on the seaboard open towards our side, with the efforts towards its relief, together with the profits accruing to shipowners from its exportation; Secondly, the restrictions at present imposed in the United States upon this immigration. Now, surely, if an unlimited number of Mongolians may in future be poured out upon our shores, the consequences may be that-if these should continue to be smuggled into the states from hence-very unhappy and strained relations between us and the states shall ensue. But supposing that these immigrants should stay here, then a congestion of the labor market must arise. And this must either consummate the pauperizing of the white laborer, or else involve his final departure, after he has become a burden on the rates and given abroad a bad name to this colony, as having invited him to come so far and then subjected him to an unlimited and ruinous competition with Mongolian hordes to hand.

And looking over the lists of farmers and residentiary owners here, working their own lands, it is a remarkable fact that these are the very men who began as laborers of one sort or another, but have nobly carved out for themselves an independence by their own indomitable industry and hard-handed toil. These then (the very most desirable of

colonists), will either pass out or not approach, discouraged by reason of wages being reduced to a minimum. For, the question at the very root of all this contention is not that wages must stand at a maximum, but lest they tumble to a minimum and stay there. But further, if interest binds the colony to the European immigrant, and to the negro too, honest, civil and industrious as he is, also possibly, ere long, to the Japanese immigrant, honor and humanity alike bind our colony to consider well in the case of the Aborigines. Now, it would be a most inconsistent action on the part of the Dominion or Provincial Government, after proving so humane and thoughtful of the interests of the Indian population in many ways, if in the way of cheapening labor to the lowest point, these should become sufferers, just at the time when their old resources by flood and field had ceased to be as productive as before. Then, indeed, would they settle down in disgust and despair of progress or pecuniary resource.

But should considerations of this kind be overlooked, what will the final result be ? What else but a population of Mongolians, numerically predominant, who will remit their earnings out of the province, who will practice exclusive dealing, and never per- manently attach themselves to British Columbia, or become identified with her laws. And then what stronger justification can be given of the current censure of inconsis- tency, contained in the taunt, that what was once " British " was made "Chinese Columbia."

And further, an uncontrolled immigration of Mongolians, to any extent, must leave the colony subject to the additional and serious evils, arising from an enormously in- creased expenditure in administration of justice and police, together with considerable risks to life and property, and a corresponding want of confidence in the colony as a safe place for investment of capital. But it is further submitted, that the rapidly approach- ing facility for the adequate supply of white labor from Europe through the Canadian Pacific Railway, leaves the question of the adequate supply and the danger of its falling short (apart from Mongolian immigration) altogether answered, and in fact put out of court. Very soon there will be no urgent need at all for them in any numbers at least. Their main occasion of coming being the hurry to finish off the line by many hands crowded on. After this is over there will be no valid excuse for their unlimited invasion of the land. Also, it must be accurately weighed in the scales of a just judgment, whether, while the non-imposition of restriction upon Mongolian immigration may not result in injury and loss, the judicious restriction of it may be found not hurting any interest, but on the contrary tending towards the adjustment of the labor market on a firm and safe basis to the greatest gain of all, and with the least possible danger to any.

Further, it may seem a hard judgment to anticipate at some future time projects of uprising with a view to Mongolian ascendency, fed by ambition and an unquenchable greed. But experience in many lands and for ages past (say even in Madagascar in modern times) points to something more than the possibility of this result looming in the future, and as not so unlikely to occur again or prove so easy to be dealt with. Anyway, pre- vention is better than cure ; and this even in the interests of the Mongolians them- selves.

What is offered in these remarks comes not of prejudice, nor is clothed in terms of offence, nor yet again is aught pressed forward unsustainable in theory or injurious in practice on principles of enlightened humanity and political economy.

I advocate neither the clean sweep of expulsion nor the barrier of an absolute exclusion, but only the establishment of a just and wise control over Mongolian immi- gration, to be clearly defined and exercised as occasion may serve, and in the best interests of British Columbia. Of course the law must be both clear and ample in and its execution bona fide.

I have the honor to be, dear sir, Your obedient servant,

PHILIP DWYER, A.M., (Some time) Canon of Killaloe Cathedral, Ireland.

APPENDIX C.

NUMBERS and OCCUPATIONS of Chinese in British Columbia are as follows :- 1

VICTORIA, 1,767-

Merchants.

45

Store employees. 179

Married ladies

41

Boys under twelve years.

Girls

31

School teachers

Doctors

12

Sewing-machine workers

Barbers. 20

Cigar-makers.

Boot-makers

130

Washermen

Saw-mill hands

17

Vegetable gardeners

Cooks and servants

180

Bricklayers . ...

Brick-makers

60

Match-makers.

Farm laborers in the vicinity Victoria

40

Printers

Carpenters

25

Butchers

Vegetable-sellers

20

Pedlers

Fish-sellers

16

Fuel-cutters

Tinsmiths

2

Bark-strippers 30

Sailors

3

Prostitutes. 34

New arrivals.

380

Boys between 12 and 17

NEW WESTMINSTER, 1,680-

Merchants 12

Store employees 18

Washermen .

20

Saw-mill hands 190

Ditch-diggers 156

Married ladies

4

Boys under twelve years.

Girls

2

School teachers

Doctors,.

6 Farm laborers 400

Cooks and servants.

50

Vegetable-sellers

Charcoal-burners.

18

Carpenters

Fish-hands in canneries 390

Prostitutes

New arrivals

NANAIMO, 168

Merchants

6

Store employees. 6

Married ladies

4

Children

School teacher

1

Doctors

Cooks and servants

18

Farm laborers. 13

Cooks and miners.

64

Washermen .. 8

Barbers ..

4

Boys between 13 and 17. 15

WELLINGTON, 685

Merchants

9

Store employees. 8

Washermen

4

Cooks and servants 19

Coal miners

620

School teacher 1

Doctors.

4

Boys between 13 and 17

15

NEW MINE, Wellington District, 69 -

Merchant

1

Coal miners 65

DEPARTURE BAY COAL MINE, 47 ---

Merchants.

2

Cooks

Carmen and laborers 42

Barber

of

Charcoal-burners

Sewing-machine workers. 6

Barbers.

Fuel-cutters 82

Boys between 13 and 17 85

New arrivals. 22

Prostitutes.

Barbers

Barbers.

2 Doctor